"One day, at work, he was using an iron rod to handle explosive gun powder."
"As he was using the iron rod to handle the gun powder, an explosion suddenly occurred."
"It uses the TransferConfig class to handle the multipart upload."
"Mental health is such a complex issue, and I have written many times about depression and how to handle it."
"How did authorities handle it?"
"It’s painful to know that my region is unprepared and ill-equipped to handle an outbreak."
"It’s painful to know that my region is both unprepared and ill-equipped to handle an outbreak."
"Your thinking will become clearer and you’ll handle stress well."
"So to put that in simple terms; if you are trying to remember a few things to do later, while considering a couple of logistical issues, and then your phone rings and somebody needs you — your working memory is now maxed out and you can’t handle anything else."
"This restriction is for writers who cannot handle the fundamentals."
"It can handle a variety of maps, such as points, networks, choropleth, cluster map, heat map, time series maps and can be configured easily."
"There is no denying this fact that mobile app development technologies have revolutionized the way we live and handle our business."
"Then, take it further and break it down into what you can handle a week at a time."
"When the problem gets more complicated, such as routes ending in different locations, or trips starting and ending at different times, integer programming can handle that really easily."
"My sister (who has the same parents as me and was raised the same) can handle anything."
"For economics, this could radically transform how and where we extract and manage resources, and how we handle land that has been degraded due to resource extraction."
"If you were a full-time freelancer, you could easily handle three of these projects per month, totaling up to $8,190 in income per month."
"If we need to handle persistent data (we prefer queues where possible to decouple and remove the direct dependency on a database layer), we rely on Elastic Search or DynamoDB, both managed services provided by AWS."
"Now you have to handle that growth."
"Lambda functions handle requests."
"Can it handle errors and bad data without crashing — or at least fail safely?"
"a Cognito User Pool to handle the Authentication to the FrontEnd and allows it to make calls to the RestAPI."
"This article will cover how to handle outliers after clustering data into several clusters using Silhouette Analysis."
"The healthy men wore specially designed arm braces or plastic “collars” that allowed them to handle the cards and chips but made it impossible for them to touch their faces."
"Perhaps our bloated healthcare infrastructure where everything is always over-treated to fleece the insurance companies for more revenue has inadvertently built in a buffer to where we can handle this?"
"If you are concerned about the lack of human element, take a look at how your competitors handle their messaging."
"That is, so long as we trusted the institutions in the middle to properly handle our data and money."
"IAM and Cognito will handle user authentication."
"Beyond those issues, there is the question of how we would handle the increased overpopulation that would result from widespread “immortality”."
"Bokeh JS client can also handle user actions."
"We just properly handle the sequence of events, launched by the button click."
"Also, patching won’t handle generators, so zip won't work without transforming it to the actual data sequence."
"Actually, you can even attach a callback to the selection and handle even more elaborate behavior."
"We will handle all the aspects of the dynamic dashboard: data management, plotting, interactivity, and styling."
"When two applications need to communicate, they use an application programming interface (API) — a controlled set of rules that both programs can handle."
"It knows how to adapt the Core’s internal model, which is plain text, into a form that MongoDB can handle."
"I feel good knowing the local rancher and his family who raise the organic, grass-fed bison and I know the spiritual ways in which they handle the entire harvesting process."
"It basically shows that you can handle issues and find plans quickly."
"Today let’s take a look at how they can enable their apps to gracefully handle peaks and dips in traffic."
"“It’s about being in a cold environment and being like, ‘Okay, I’m aware of the cold but I don’t feel cold.’ It’s losing the fear and realizing you can handle it."
"He said big news sites should band together and stop allowing digital firms to handle their ad sales — thus forcing advertisers off Facebook and Google, and back to the news sites themselves."
"In our first edition, we’re going to discuss how our Cruise self-driving vehicles handle double-parked vehicles (DPVs)."
"But Howler doesn’t provide any mechanisms for sprite creation, so we have to handle that ourselves."
"Did we handle his question and this situation appropriately?"
"The whole library I wrote beforehand to handle all the nuances of connectivity, queues and exchanges declaration was replaced by one simple function — connecting and setting up the health check."
"These are very sad situations as there is a high chance for these common bacterial strains to adapt to these powerful antibiotics (even though the body’s immune system can handle the infection or a mild antibiotic is sufficient to kill it) and gain antibiotic resistance given the time."
"But even the most highly-performant database can only handle so much."
"My question: “How do you handle it when you’re hard at work on something and you are gripped by a sudden inertia, finding yourself unable to push through?” Translation: “What do you do about writer’s block?” Mr. Bennett’s answer was as simple as it was clever."
"After one injection of the CRISPR/Cas9 components, 90% of the eggs carried mutations in that gene, causing drastic changes in how well the coral could handle heat later on."
"If you can’t handle the truth that’s your problem."
"I learned that my body’s wisdom knows how to handle every situation that I encounter."
"The tool can handle large amounts of data and has a friendly, intuitive interface that allows users to build effective maps in an instant."
"Hadoop is written in Java, the widely used language by developers, which makes it easy for developers to handle tasks and process data efficiently."
"Here’s the way I handle my portfolio page."
"Instead of having to decide on the spot how you want to handle something, you can clearly communicate your policy."
"I handle 99% of my client communications through email."
"If you handle this situation professionally, you will not damage your relationship with the client."
"swift build command will compile all the modules and handle the dependencies in the Package.swift file."
"Employers wants to know how you handle problems and how you would fit in their design team."
"This is a required step because machine learning models cannot handle enumerative data directly."
"This is a required step because machine learning models cannot handle enumerative data directly."
"Although neither is necessary, this allows us to handle arbitrarily large datasets without needing to worry ourselves with data engineering, as long as we have enough computational resources."
"The difference is that while BI works with static and structured data, Data Science can handle high-speed and complex, multi-structured data from a wide variety of data sources."
"Although I acknowledge the potential of Python as well, in my experience, a successful data scientist shouldn’t choose one over the other — rather, you learn how to handle both languages and draw on their respective strengths."
"How do they handle their magic system or how do they portray unicorns?"
"You could also use the public IP address instead of a domain name, or you could use the wildcard "*" to allow this Virtual Service to handle traffic meant for any host)."
"You could also use the public IP address instead of a domain name, or you could use the wildcard to allow this Virtual Service to handle traffic meant for any host)."
"How do you handle the responsibility of everyday life, how do you relax after a long day at the (home) office?"
"If you don’t handle this scenario, it will result in the failure of Product Catalog Service too."
"This will be the result if we do not handle the service failures."
"After spending maybe an hour and a half on the subject, Epstein segued into how he was going to handle prisoners and prison life."
"And he certainly knew money and how to handle it."
"Using pandas with Python allows you to handle much more data than you could with Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets."
"Our knowledge of how to function in society has not equipped us to handle a pandemic and it’s a little bit like we’re having to start over our lives as adults and start learning how to do everything again from scratch."
"In particular, Elixir is great for situations where you need to handle a lot of small interactions from a multitude of users."
"So let’s see how we can handle a stateful sink properly with Flink."
"It will handle IOException s and errors returned by InfluxDB by retrying infinitely."
"How you handle the missteps and the mistakes makes all the difference."
"This allows us to handle registration, maintain the user directory, and provide our own identity tokens for the authentication, while keeping everything on the cloud."
"You need to handle your urge to cheat the right way."
"Of course, if there are still a few data cleaning steps to be undertaken, Tableau can handle the dirty laundry as well."
"Can the bot handle more complex queries and tasks?"
"These hospitals could handle a total of 300,000 patients at any time, before even functioning above capacity."
"I regretted everything, regretted leaving the US, regretted not at least trying to soothe my pain earlier; but in the end I did not want to be seen as a quitter, a loser, somebody who couldn’t handle life."
"I could not handle coming to school anymore — I would hold my breath and open the windows to the classroom, pretending it was too hot."
"A competent and self-confident squad will handle complexities better."
"Once you reach this point, together with developing reliable processes to absorb the multiple What-If scenarios, you may even take some holidays knowing that your team will handle everything smoothly."
"Most companies (read: your company) can handle a simple architecture."
"Can your buy-sell agreement handle all of these?"
"I don’t handle loss well."
"We also need to handle any pending configuration changes, which we’ll discuss next."
"It also makes use of a custom transaction built with the Generic Transaction Interface (GTI) to handle the processing of the chat messages."
"Therefore, with the help of machine learning, chatbots are integrated into the systems which can handle first wave questions aiding in customer support allowing the company to solve serious problems requiring immediate attention."
"Docker will handle that."
"You feel perfectly comfortable saying, “I’m sorry, but I can’t handle that right now."
"JT: I usually use cross validation techniques to handle bias related issues."
"When I don’t drop ship, I pay customs for ordering in bulk, handle packaging myself, then pay $8.80 to send a package just within Australia."
"While letting someone handle the camera can go, either way, the ability to control his picture, with the perfect angle and the right looks, gives him the necessary control that allows him to have the image exactly as he wanted it."
"Slot types are often very forgiving: for the case of Date, it can handle a range of utterances like “January 9”, “January 9 2019”, “The 9th of January”, “January”, etc."
"It has a steep learning curve as the API is almost similar to pandas and it can handle Out Of Memory computations(~10X of RAM) like a breeze."
"One way to scale write operations is to handle them asynchronically."
"With the demon of not being able to write off my shoulders, there’s much less reason why I can’t handle a measly bit of cold water."
"There’s a tangible target microbial cause that we can train our immune system to handle."
"The next time we might encounter this pathogen, our body can easily handle it."
"How you handle life and death stress will more tell you how you handled your childhood when things got tough."
"Locale.ai uses a wide range of powerful open-source tools to handle large scale datasets in front-end and backend."
"Giving the word a specific meaning allows the program to handle it correctly in both semantic and syntactic analysis."
"This, by the way, is how to handle a Trump supporter."
"You could work again, your IBS didn’t act up as much, and you could handle sudden changes with fewer issues."
"With each challenge I face, I’m watching stories in my head that are impacting how I handle myself."
"User authentication.We don’t want to handle user data and authentication, leave it to services that specialise in it."
"Even current 42 editors cannot handle the load therefore I asked more help from the community."
"A Docker Host can handle multiple containers, with each container defining a detached microservice."
"Using Kubernetes, it is possible to handle all the online and batch workloads required to feed, for example, analytics and machine learning applications."
"Matplotlib is beginning to handle this issue with the tight layout feature, but that feature does not appear to be compatible with the generic way of defining subplot locations used here; it is meant to be used with the grid-based subplot layout definitions."
"In fact, C# has added a isNullOrEmpty function natively to handle this extremely common scenario."
"We will handle the Inserted and Updated rows first."
"So really this combo S3 + Athena is a good mix for people who wants to handle a volume of data that can be consider “big” without handling all the infrastructure (that is a full time job)."
"Presto operators at various organizations handle graceful shutdowns by controlling traffic to the clusters."
"You can use the transformation lambda to handle those spaces (replace with underscores) in the keys."
"Note: This lambda will handle only data sent by Cloudwatch logs to firehose only, if the source is different you might want to tweak the code a bit."
"And, Infrastructure as Code (IaC) is one of the practices that a DevOps environment may apply to handle a shift in scale."
"This allows engineers to handle infrastructure the way they’d tackle application code."
"With React — or at least since 2019 — we would typically handle state through a series of Hooks."
"There are, of course, lots of other little differences and quirks between React and Vue, but hopefully the contents of this article has helped to serve as a bit of a foundation for understanding how both frameworks handle stuff."
"What really worries me, though, is not how she will handle the next few weeks; it’s how she will live through the next few years."
"If you return a function from the useEffect’s passed function, you can handle the componentWillUnmount code."
"We return the promise of the sdk call and let the controller handle the result."
"This will prompt us to give an Lambda function which will handle the data transformation."
"Employing computer vision to deliver a no-touch checkout experience requires that Standard efficiently handle large volumes of data from many sources."
"It would not even be possible to handle 2.4 billion users while providing them the best service without using Machine Learning!"
"The type system within TypeScript will handle the logic of unexpected data type and throw the error without writing the extra code."
"For instance, we all know that when clients are asked about cross-border transactions and who they’d rather handle them, they always say pre-existing relationships, lawyers they know."
"“No, I’m an adult now, I need to handle this differently”, I told myself."
"The assignments and project work in the big data lab courses prepared me to handle such huge quantities of data and cluster resources efficiently."
"It also teaches you how to handle complex code, and how to simplify code without dumbing it down."
"I wonder if perhaps our difficulties in facing things, in knowing how to face the strange changing circumstances of our lives have something to do with our reference points — what we look to when we are looking around for clues as to how we might handle a situation."
"We handle application state using NuclearJS, an open-source project first developed here at Optimizely by Jordan Garcia."
"Auto-detection for less repetition: Augmented data preparation can handle mundane, routine but necessary data transformation steps, like physically joining schemas together or comparison calculations, with automation."
"They also help you to handle the time pressure of the real exam better."
"But with the right learning and preparation, you can handle even the most unexpected questions."
"Now that I’m in charge of myself, this tendency to rise before barnyard animals means that I handle the vast majority of my workday before the loud ass construction starts across the fucking street, and it suits me fine."
"The point is to take the time to see how you can handle this situation, react to them, and adjust your expectations."
"Comprehensive enquiry support is usually part of the package as well, so if HMRC wants to question any part of the claim, the specialist is there to handle it."
"He’d handle the prospecting; he’d close the sales."
"And let’s just say she did not handle the break well."
"But what about when you handle specific data inputs like a part number, a member ID, a policy number or a healthcare code?"
"My husband, who was starting his fourth novel, comforted me through floods of tears as I regretfully put aside the one original novel idea I had ever had to handle these folks’ affairs."
"We can also train our bodies to better handle emergencies, albeit most emergencies these days aren’t actually emergencies, when they arise by developing breathing techniques into our routine of life."
"These tools provide you a number of Hadoop services which can help you handle big data more efficiently."
"So when a heavy forwarder parses the data, the indexer only needs to handle the indexing segment."
"When you started everyone and anyone could handle all aspects of the business."
"We have to handle every problem we face with care and find the best solution for everyone."
"We’ll use the decorator here to handle events of type “prediction_request”, which will handle the prediction requests that clients send to the server."
"NHTSA subsequently updated the rule to handle new technologies used in autonomous vehicles in 2017 (12)."
"At first, the eternally optimistic side of me thought, “My freelance writing is going well, the dogs are adjusting to each other, and after a course of physical therapy, I can handle this!"
"I was so proud of myself because not too long ago, I couldn’t handle three days without a relapse."
"Besides, how should we handle relationships that contain extra data?"
"Then how do we handle cases when a book has multiple publishers and/or years of publication?"
"It is essential to anticipate how changes in data from dynamic real world environments will affect your models and how to handle these changes."
"How do you handle critique on your designs?"
"Scipy can handle 1-d polynomials in two ways."
"Pandas have some special features that allow you to handle missing data or value with a proper measure."
"They handle all the hard aspects of design, layout, and spacing by providing pre-configured templates to choose from."
"For sharing, we don’t use the connection which is used for sending text messages because it is a very lightweight connection and it cannot handle this much load."
"How do you enable your lab services team to handle these requests?"
"So as the /list route is not present on the server-side, out React app will handle that routing as we're redirecting the user to the index.html file."
"If we wanted to do that, we’d handle each task’s result one at a time if they were all being stored in the same place."
"A detailed explanation of the effective usage of styled components can be found in this article, which also covers how to handle inline styles with styled components."
"K-Means can’t handle this because the mean values of the clusters are very close together."
"You don’t have to pack on any responsibility at all, from a solo lease to whether or not the cordless vacuum is charged, until you meet your female partner, because heaven knows everything will fall into place after that–she’ll handle it."
"Basically what they do is efficiently handle situations when we want to get the “highest priority” item quickly."
"A company in which you can do what you like, how you like, and how well you can handle the work is going to be a better place for you and the company."
"It can handle multivariate functions, constraints, and has multiple optimization algorithms to choose from."
"Specifically, I don’t want to handle parser context with positional anchors or look-ahead/behind assertions."
"The idea behind that convolution filters of different sizes will handle objects at multiple scales better."
"Sometimes it’s even impossible not for technical reasons, but for business ones — you received three phone numbers in your input, while the target system can handle only two."
"In our case, this practice quickly revealed performance problems with the RabbitMQ instance, which sometimes refused to handle too heavy batches of incoming tasks."
"Make sure that you have the right set of people, who can handle stressful situations easily."
"You can use any name or handle you want."
"As long as the underlying infrastructure can handle it, we’re good to go."
"Big warning: If you cannot handle a large number of requests, make sure you queue incoming requests at a rate you can handle."
"Make sure you can handle lots of simultaneous requests being sent at the same time."
"If you spawn more processes than your CPU can handle at a time, you will notice your performance starting to drop."
"We will learn how we can handle the challenge."
"The only difference is the integration tests handle data volume on the order of a few hundred records per run, which is an incredibly small amount of data: even an hourly pipeline in production will process several orders of magnitude more data than this."
"I will show you how you can simulate a connection failure with timeout in your Ruby application and check if it can handle a service outage and recover from that."
"We did not handle special cases here."
"From line 11 to line 31, we handle this case."
"There are reasons you may prefer to handle errors differently."
"It used to be the norm that families would care for their dead and handle the other aspects of the death of loved ones."
"The routing tables handle the packet routing rules."
"Then first approach [a-zA-Z0–9\.\s]* is great to read, however has one caveat, trailing blanks will be included in our results — so make sure your programme can handle these."
"One limitation is that these entry point console scripts do not allow you to define arguments, however, you can handle them, all the same."
"However, some people may think that they are very proficient in computer programming languages, and disdain to use Excel as a tool because Excel can’t handle big data."
"It works best for small data, and with plugins it can handle millions of data."
"The next few sections discuss how to handle the individual aspects of front-end credit-card validation and then we will see how to tie it all together in a reusable Angular Component."
"After, we started by building a single slave cluster by following a set of steps and then went on building a cluster with three machines, one master and two slaves, where the master handles the work distribution and the slaves handle the processing and data storing."
"But we can use multiple dispatch library to handle overloading."
"How did Faktograf handle the COVID-19 crisis?"
"Here is where we handle the requests sent to our program."
"What strategies will you take to handle the release and follow up the early feedback so you can iterate on the current product?"
"It has a plethora of images of various sizes, something which we'll handle down the road."
"The API project for the solution will have a single responsibility, and that is to handle the HTTP requests received by the web server and return the HTTP responses with either success or failure."
"We will handle exceptions and errors that have occurred in the Domain or Data projects to effectively communicate with the consumer of APIs."
"The reader can handle files that are GB’s in size and can process 60+ entries per second so a 1 GB file with 500k entries should take less than 15 minutes to process."
"Ilyssa Panitz: How do you handle the question, “Why did you get divorced” without giving away too much?"
"Andrea McGinty: You can handle that by being positive."
"Instead of having two files, we could add a parameter for it to handle both cases."
"In our current scenario, a read error would result in the script breaking, but if we catch and handle this error, we’re able to build a fallback."
"Do you need to handle datasets that are larger than 100GB?"
"PySpark can handle petabytes of data efficiently because of its distribution mechanism."
"How did Hromadske Radio handle the COVID-19 crisis?"
"In addition to dealing with an incredibly large and constantly growing dataset, LinkedIn Recruiter needs to handle arbitrarily complex queries and filters and deliver results that are relevant to a specific criteria."
"How we handle our descent — the backside of the crisis — very well will be the defining moment for the next ten years for Creekstone Church."
"This product by LinkedIn needs to handle arbitrarily complex queries and filters and deliver results that are relevant to specific criteria."
"Before we handle the events, however, we declare variables maxClaimsQuant and totalClaimQuant of type resource.Quantity (to represent SI quantities in k8s) to setup our quantity threshold and running total."
"The best way to deal with this is to engineer the data so that the model can better handle this situation."
"Former First Lady Michelle Obama famously warned, alluding to Trump, “The presidency doesn’t change who you are; it reveals who you are.” Mental health professionals also expressed grave concerns about Trump’s temperament; how he’d handle a genuine crisis threatening the nation."
"It can handle inconsistent schema (in case of unstructured data)."
"Pig Latin can handle both atomic data types like int, float, long, double etc."
"How will your database handle this input?"
"If you’re storing small files, then you probably have lots of them (otherwise you wouldn’t turn to Hadoop), and the problem is that HDFS can’t handle lots of files."
"But I had no idea how Chromebooks would handle performance, or how I’d go about meeting my other design needs."
"Some men get utterly uncomfortable when I show any depressive symptoms; they cannot handle any sort of emotional display of sadness."
"If they cannot handle a slight inconvenience, how will they react in our relationship if something terrible, like a job less or life-threatening accident, happens?"
"There were many men who could not handle any aspect of dating a complex person."
"Dependency management should handle not only the dependency of task execution, but also failures and retries."
"How did OKO.press handle the COVID-19 crisis?"
"How warehouses work: Fulfillment centers house products from many vendors, and while they suggest they can handle anything, you’ll find that each warehouse has it’s own strengths and weaknesses."
"I didn’t handle it very well… I couldn’t comprehend the sadness I was experiencing over something I’ve never had, over someone I never got to hold."
"With current progress in automation, it can handle large volumes of data without trouble."
"Now there are many instances where a feature is represented by multiple words so we need to handle that first by joining multiple words features into a one-word feature."
"In the long run, they decide what characteristics your product will have, how the app will process the data, and handle computing."
"If you have thin skin or cannot handle rejection, you really need to read this."
"However, in the case of nullable variables, we need to handle the null case explicitly."
"It will handle GET and POST for Heroes without us having to do any more work."
"Why you cannot handle long silences at meals."
"Decision tree classification models can easily handle qualitative independent variables without the need to create dummy variables."
"People of color should not be obligated to explain anything they don’t want to, pander to white people, sugarcoat their struggles, hide how they really feel, or otherwise handle racism with kid gloves."
"In this article, we will handle the basic methods for push, pop, shift, and unshift."
"Swift uses the SipHash hash function to handle many of the hash value calculations."
"In the past, I would handle the church business first because it nagged at me, distracting me while writing."
"Well, it’s the Java experts who bring a project to successful reality, handle development challenges and offer zeal to the business exclusiveness and reliable requirements."
"The parts of name=’semantic_upsample_features’ and name=’guided_upsample_features’ can not handle unknown shape, so we fix them to refer the shape in runtime."
"But if you give them the tools they need to manage their anxiety, they’re going to handle life’s challenges with grace."
"The final training set was slightly reduced to 5,153 images, the validation set with 632 total images was used in the modeling process to gauge model accuracy and tune the model further, and the test set was used to gauge how the model would handle unseen data with 71 total images."
"The topmost node in the decision tree that corresponds to the best predictor is called the root node, and the best thing about a decision tree is that it can handle both categorical and numerical data."
"After turning all the data into numerical data types, I handle any NaN values and create a few new features: ‘yr_since_renovation’, ‘yr_since_built’, and ‘renovated’."
"The challenge statement here is trying to handle this issue within BigQuery itself."
"What this does not handle are updates to previous entries, as well as updates when some columns are dimensions, and others are measurements."
"This has applicability to the problem statement, but it’s not entirely clear how we would handle a variable number of surrogate key columns, and how to exclude different ones."
"This tool, will handle all library additions and code generations for a variety of peripherals like SPI, I2C, UART etc."
"Yes, our current blockchain version allows up to 100 000 transactions per second, but we should consider how to handle millions of users and billions of transactions."
"If you’re following the stock market and your account balances on a daily basis, you’ll be riding a roller coaster of short-term emotions that not a lot of people can handle."
"How can we deal with life’s curveballs if we can’t even handle a sure home run pitch?"
"Therefore, we can handle it by using the receive step and describing the new expected state after the snake has moved."
"The standard Kubernetes tools cannot handle all the above nuances."
"Another hidden gem in that release is the fact that build-angular now dedupes duplicate modules that Webpack can’t handle."
"The rich meat can handle a good amount of flavour, so be bold."
"This cut can handle a good dose of flavour, so whip up your own wild garlic and lemon oil and drizzle over juicy rings of lamb breast."
"It could be extremely difficult for nparray to handle this on most personal computers."
"So, how does Sass handle division?"
"Since surviving a stroke in December 2016, I rarely listen to music of my own accord, and when music is on, I can only handle an hour or so of it before I need to get away from it."
"There is a perception that Black girls are not in need of any help, an example of deficit thinking that suggests Black girls possess super strength and can handle everything thrown their way."
"Machine learning utilizes various techniques to intelligently handle large and complex amounts of information to make decisions and/or predictions."
"And make sure you triple check each and every point you mention with your mentor so that you can handle any question your evaluators throw at you."
"Since he/she has been working extensively with you the past several weeks, he/she will have a good idea of what your strengths and weaknesses are, how you approach problems and handle tough situations and your general suitability for the role you were working in."
"The quick follow up will let callers know that you are always reachable and that you handle matters swiftly."
"Both frameworks handle each of these requirements separately quite well."
"Whereas Solace Pubsub+ broker¹⁰ has origins in investment banking where it had to handle large volumes of financial transactions with guaranteed delivery, it can handle impressive throughput and can buffer data but doesn’t store it all like Kafka."
"In traditional system integrations, we have to handle the complexities and limitations of the systems of record and that is not always a quick process."
"Facebook’s key business is a social network, and it has to handle Images, Videos, and Text."
"This effectively blocked further communication from that peer for the duration it takes to handle the message."
"While the IT staff can handle this task with ease, there is more to it than simply buying the new signs and plugging them in."
"Airbnb, along with many other apps, handle the sign-in process by placing a checkmark next to the input field when the information is accepted."
"They’re the ones who can’t handle something good, and you my darlings are what’s good."
"Further, no man is that tall or that attractive or that smart that we should ignore the simple truth that it’s weird when someone can’t handle something good."
"ParseHub can handle Javascript, AJAX, cookies, sessions and redirects."
"We handle platform-specific tools and APIs to stimulate all kinds of processes in the application."
"How they handle DevOps system?"
"I told my dad I would handle it, and I wanted to start wrestling lessons at the local YMCA."
"Pop-ups provide a means for physically prototyping that adjacent possible environment, what a space could handle, what a street could be."
"As a consequence 150 estimates how many social interactions we can handle."
"You can practice gentleness with how you handle your everyday world."
"She was glad I had chosen not to escalate the situation, but her office didn’t handle this kind of stuff."
"If we don’t use this extension, we’ll have to handle this ourselves."
"In addition, they are also changing how they handle waste and its disposal so as to achieve increased efficiency and enhancement of environmental protection."
"Thus, quantum computers can handle multiple complex queries simultaneously."
"Golang can concurrently handle a considerable number of tasks at one go as it works with Goroutines and not threads."
"As I reflected further, I decided to observe how did others handle the good news of people around them even if they were still waiting for similar things themselves."
"I concocted a wild story in my head about my own demise and ruminated over how they’d handle my dead body once they found it hanging on the cliff somewhere."
"Our readers are savvy and can handle diverse language, provided that you’re not just using it to sound smart!"
"Our readers are savvy and can handle diverse language, provided that you’re not just using it to sound smart!"
"It was up to the rest of the team to handle things, restructure and move on, which took extra time."
"It needs something else to store the tasks, it needs a Message Broker (or Broker for short), which is a fancy term for a program that can store and handle a queue 🙃."
"Each workflow step has a few associated events, so we collaborated with the Workflow Builder engineering team to design a common pattern in Bolt that lets you centrally handle the entire life cycle of a workflow step."
"It has become a crucial prerequisite for companies to handle the enormous amounts of data generated regularly."
"She inhaled a long drag of her smoke and played with the cover of her phone, trying to think of how she could handle him."
"You need to handle your application compliance separately."
"Can the existing client-server or cloud architectures handle that increase in volume?"
"This allows them to handle substantial amounts of traffic without sacrificing efficiency or requiring large investments of capital."
"It is noteworthy that this kind of chart requires a relatively large amount of data or proper segmentation as it does not handle missing values very well."
"Otherwise, when you try to run your project it will throw an exception because it doesn’t know how to handle this type of file."
"Decorum is the way we handle it."
"But this could go in different directions and doesn’t always mean you’ll handle stress well."
"Now how does that help you handle anxiety?"
"Because it’s a controlled environment, it can be a healthy way to approach how you handle stress and fear."
"But if you can handle horror in small doses, it’s something that can be a great way to expose yourself to the things that you fear without directly exposing yourself to them."
"And I don’t always know how to handle it."
"When an Ingress class value matches that of a controller instance, that controller instance will handle the routing rules for your Ingress."
"And when you are in this reactive state, your body starts producing a steroid called cortisol to help you handle the stress."
"More recently, the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) in the EU and the California Consumer Privacy Act (CCPA) in California have sought to establish stringent, legally binding, and enforceable requirements for how third parties handle the personal information that they have collected."
"The UI controller, true to its name, will handle all operations related to the UI such as getting the data from the API, creating charts & updating the values for the number of cases."
"the most prominent of which is a huge Latino man in black t-shirt, baseball cap, and the unyielding countenance of a man who knows how to handle himself in the street."
"Revisiting our goals (secure, portable, and scalable), we added security by letting Vault handle our CI/CD secrets."
"We also need to handle request-and-response serialization and implement load balancing to distribute loads between servers."
"How would you handle an imbalanced dataset?"
"Trust me, Galactic Federation, we humans can handle it."
"Stupid is a harsh word but if it quacks like a duck…We can’t handle homelessness, starvation, or even a presidential election."
"So how should engineers handle request failures?"
"I encourage you to dedicate a big part of your time to failure handling, and to make it a habit to announce your systems are production-ready only when you handle your failures in a safe and business-oriented way."
"CRD controllers also do life cycle management for the native resources and handle visibility and debuggability."
"We have our store in place now, but we need to handle a little issue that we may have if we need to consume some API inside our actions creators."
"You might even pick up some tips on how others handle this tricky situation."
"All these attributes make traditional RDBMS ill-equipped to handle modern big data."
"MongoDB is currently the most popular NoSQL database, and has delivered substantial values for some businesses that have been struggling to handle their unstructured data with the traditional RDBMS approach."
"Remove the <app-home></app-home> from app.component.html file, because we don’t need it, Angular Router will handle all the component you specify in routing file."
"Since both are very big fields, it is unreasonable to expect deep knowledge in every domain, but the person should have a functional set of skills where they can handle end-to-end workflows in their strongest area reasonably well."
"One honorable mention here is that you can not in every programming language assume that the reduce function will handle the element in order, e.g."
"Especially writers who cannot handle the fundamentals mentioned in the points stated above that clearly state our guidelines to only submit one item in a day."
"But just because we might refuse to handle them doesn’t mean we don’t all come to work with broad emotional needs."
"Now each server only has to handle half the shards as it previously did."
"There have been also been a few suicides of people who could not handle the guilt after seeing what happened to the bag-holders, the type of skeptical people who continued to believe it would eventually collapse, even after hearing the rumors of governments buying Bitcoin."
"However, if you need to handle package dependencies for your project, things can get messy here, so this is why, for my projects, I prefer to use Poetry."
"The population is not protesting against repression now, but their attitudes will depend on how governments handle the crisis."
"You’ll need to handle token expiration, password reset, email confirmation, refresh token, social logins, etc.)."
"You’ll need to handle token expiration, password reset, email confirmation, refresh token, social logins, etc.)."
"It can’t handle complex problems."
"So, how does Sass handle division?"
"Instead, you have to handle her, and manage her, using both your innate superiority and all the gaslighting you can muster to help rein her back in."
"We had debated how to handle multiple activities on a day, sport bounds (is an hour of yoga the same size as a 3 hour bike ride?)"
"Regression Tree can easily handle the complicated data."
"So how can we handle a bigger project?"
"Treemaps can handle the display of thousands of items simultaneously."
"After the first layer, our model can handle the rest."
"These can automatically scale multiple, identical machines based on metrics like CPU utilization, so they could easily handle more traffic across regions."
"Unlike the previous options, these handle automatic resource scaling with virtually no configuration or server provisioning."
"In the future, it would be nice to have it check for an existing email address and handle that issue accordingly."
"We humans apparently can’t handle the paradoxical meaning of our greatest scientific achievement and most important philosophical discovery: The universe is vast and majestic, and our species is insignificant and might be utterly meaningless."
"Given these complexities, the best way for Facebook and other social media companies to handle content moderation is to step away from controlling speech and focus on preventing violence."
"handle_cast can handle the async ones, while handle_call can handle the synchronous one."
"I used a Promise chain to handle this."
"Decision tree can handle both categorical and numerical data."
"As we would in every Node.js app, let’s handle errors with the following code."
"This helps us to handle asynchronous request errors when they arises."
"Based on the data type Python will know how to handle certain operations."
"At Riskified, we also handle lots of data and face problems, which forced us to scale up our ML platform."
"The idea that the company is putting forward is to eliminate other services from third party companies and instead have Apple handle that for you, it only makes sense then that a search engine for the iPhone, iPad, and Mac is the next evolution of that idea."
"Its job is to handle the code, protect it, manage its versioning, and handle simultaneous commits on the code."
"Components are great to build UIs, because they let you define independent pieces of it, and you can use and handle them however you want."
"It takes work to handle a mental array."
"Vaex can easily handle datasets comprised of billions of rows!"
"Warren buffet said “If you cannot handle your emotions, you cannot handle money”."
"Which behind the scenes handle it the same way — using JS timeout."
"The service will handle the request and John will be notified once the process is complete and results available."
"I am covering this first instead of the data pipeline as it really shapes the way I handle the messages and events that come in."
"In this way, a single program thread can handle many concurrent operations."
"As I said before, Reactor would handle the applications creation, navigation and communication ."
"The reason why companies like Amazon, Walmart, Netflix, etc are doing so well is because of how they handle user-generated data."
"Each path will use a Lambda function to handle HTTP requests and responses."
"Amplify CLI creates a single resource in Amazon API Gateway so you can handle all routes, HTTP Methods and paths, with a single Lambda function via a Lambda Proxy integration."
"Let’s handle the first route, we will use the HTTP Method and path by the title for reference as in the next section."
"According to the experts, if you handle cryptocurrency responsibly, it’s easily as safe as handling cash."
"Just like handling cash, you have to be careful and thoughtful about how you handle your cryptocurrency."
"Now we get another problem in our minds, how to handle and route requests which come to a single endpoint and distribute those requests between service entities or nodes in a cluster?"
"Well, I would say it is highly depending on the properties of your application like the number of users per given time, number of requests per given time, number of database connections at a given time and load of the data that needs to handle etc."
"If it doesn’t handle mobile well your reach will suffer."
"In the context of a marketplace, this means if a customer were to purchase a product such as an iPhone case, we can handle the payment on our site, but the funds would be sent to the supplier."
"Your integration should not attempt to handle order fulfillment on the client-side because then it’s possible for customers to leave the page after payment is complete but before the fulfillment process initiates."
"It seems, by the way, that Google is changing the way they handle certain things to avoid exactly that."
"If we can recover more effectively, we can handle more training stress and do more training volume."
"When you do not exercise for a few weeks, it becomes difficult for the heart to handle extra blood flow and reduces the heart's ability to use oxygen effectively, which is medically called VO2 max."
"It wasn’t much to look at but it was hugely popular with our crowd, people who enjoyed real music — played by real musicians with real instruments — and who knew how to handle themselves on a dancefloor."
"Because our n-by-n determinant relies on the (n-1)-by-(n-1)th determinant, we can handle this recursively."
"First, we have the particles all over the view, so the solution was to set a buffer size ridiculously big so it can handle the number of particles for as long as the user stays on the site."
"I assume that you are using some ticketing system to handle the development process."
"So what about how we handle our personal information online?"
"For example, the function ContainsInt exists specifically to handle the case where we'd want to check if an int is in a slice of int ."
"On the front end, the Local Burden of Disease visualizations also utilize Leaflet.js, or more specifically, React-leaflet to handle functionalities such as basemaps, map layering, and zooming/panning."
"Since there is no perfect formula for work-life balance and it varies from individual to individual, I stretched out to my entrepreneur peers to see how they handle this complex problem."
"We can handle such issues by following the Blue Green deployment strategy."
"If those functions throw exceptions instead of returning error values, then it makes our code much cleaner if we catch them and then handle them gracefully."
"They can handle all the errors thrown in one central place."
"I can’t do a lot of photographs because I become too aware of that projected image and I can’t handle it."
"The computing has to handle “heavy” models without being tethered."
"If so, how did you handle it?"
"‘st.write’ is generic and so can handle the output of many formats including Markdown , images, plots, and many others."
"Kustomize will then handle prefixing components for you, which simplifies operations."
"The next use case shows off a couple more SSG tricks in Next.js to handle more complexity."
"It also describes how to handle a conversation where irrational thought and behavior enters the stream."
"It helped me handle the stressful situations that came up during his senior year in high school by helping me see the silver lining in situations that didn’t turn out exactly as planned."
"Since AI automatically builds a prediction model, this system also integrates US ETFs (bull bear leverage , new concept ETFs and so on) that have been difficult to calculate expected return/risk and common robo-advisors couldn’t handle."
"React will handle the store changes and automatically re-render the view with the modified data."
"This allows for much more fluid, programmatic interaction between Bokeh and Jupyter components without the need to use push_notebook() or handle Jupyter comms manually."
"We can handle the ‘TypeError’ using the python keywords try and except."
"We want to be able handle these errors without having our code fail to produce any output."
"That’s why these are deliberately performed last: that added contribution from the forearms typically allows you to handle heavier weights with hammer curls than reverse or standard biceps curls."
"This is actually the only solution I’ve found to handle this problem, so bear with me because this might look like a hack."
"When the color is gray, this means the feature is missing — LightGBM can handle missing features natively, which is a great bonus."
"This often boils down to the 30gram cake problem, where the Tech infrastructure cannot handle so many consumers."
"Such scenarios serve as the constraints on our system — we want smooth, predictable, human-like behavior subject to the constraint that the behavior must correctly handle a battery of real-world and simulated cases."
"Again, statistics — if a system only has to handle changes relative to the map 1% of the time, we can be up to two orders of magnitude safer then one that must always rely on only its real-time perceptions of the world."
"Less provides @import rule so you can easily handle external files."
"This team must take full ownership of a specific module and handle its whole lifecycle, starting from the requirements, architecture, development, testing, deployment, and maintenance."
"And finally, it is about the ability of the team to embrace the T-shaped world, where everyone occasionally needs to handle tasks outside their main area of expertise."
"I spend a lot of time lying in a dark room or zoning out with the TV on if I can handle the noise."
"“New York is cold… I tried the winter there once… nope!” From this track, we learn that HAIM would certainly never make it in Chicago if they couldn’t handle New York’s winter."
"Application configuration — how many incoming / outgoing requests can your threadpool handle concurrently?"
"If you define plots around the column data source and then push more data into the source then Bokeh will handle the rest."
"Smart contracts can potentially handle a lot of the functions of a clearing house, and may eventually replace them."
"The platform provides free publishing, taking care of all the technical stuff that a newspaper would typically handle."
"How did you handle the situation?"
"How did you handle the situation?"
"How did you handle it?"
"How did you handle it?"
"In general, a system is robust if it can handle variability and remain effective."
"Labor is intense!” On the drive home I tried to convince myself that this would be okay, I could handle one cervical check and be okay."
"Make sure you have decided how you will handle errors in the code."
"We can handle any expression."
"Finally we call a function to handle the actual post-payment actions and we return a HTTP 200 OK code to Stripe."
"Stripe will handle any other response code as an error and will continue trying until the all the message events will be delivered."
"By analyzing the mechanisms, we can better decide how we want to handle them."
"Due to the fact that I have been interested in TensorFlow.js for a few weeks now, I decided to check how YOLO will handle the limitations of In-Browser computing."
"I cannot handle the stress that comes from entering uncertain situations."
"If someone changes something manually on the infrastructure, how do you handle it on Terraform, and how do you run Terraform plan next time?"
"For example, Hessian-based approaches which optimally handle convex optimization problems do not scale up and so approximations are required [Martens et al., 2012])."
"For each city and region around the world, local health systems can only handle so many COVID-19 patients before running out of ICU beds, ventilators and medical personnel."
"If Product Owners don’t know how to handle this pressure, they will inevitably be incapable of defining a Sprint Goal."
"She could handle it."
"She could handle it, and no one else could."
"The questions should revolve around the necessary technical requirements related to your Python project that you will be asking the software company in Ukraine to handle."
"The questions should revolve around the necessary technical requirements related to your Python project that you will be asking the software company in Ukraine to handle."
"This phase also allows us to handle user interaction and provide communication with the components hierarchy."
"I had to give up the job I loved, I couldn’t handle it."
"On the other hand pdb.post_mortem() excepts an optional traceback object otherwise will try to handle the exception currently being handled."
"But now the sheer volume of data that most organisations handle means spreadsheets are becoming defunct."
"Some can’t handle the instability."
"Different programming languages deployed in different environments all handle secrets in their own way."
"Apartment will provide you tools to help you handle multiple tenants in your Rails application."
"How do you handle those moments when you feel psychologically alone, or even abandoned?"
"MayanAdventureAgent.cs: that controls the agent movement, handle events (what happens when you’re rock and you’re in the wood bridge etc), and the reward system."
"The volume of writes or reads to the database surpasses what a single node or its read replicas can handle, resulting in slowed response times or timeouts."
"It’s all in your frequency and how you choose to handle them."
"We can use ES6 to handle this."
"The instances were benchmarked and stress tested before production release, to ensure that they can handle more traffic than our actual application traffic, especially that we have short polling on the front-end."
"When you use a form, the browser will handle all of the state management and URL encoding for free."
"The ride-hailing app on cab drivers’ phones also serves as a recording device, detailing the way they handle various road situations."
"How do you handle brand names which are the same in all languages when using Text Translate service?"
"I could handle it."
"You’ll find that they can be very informative — make sure you handle them well."
"In the moment-by-moment decision-making that is true for every manager, the pressure is to handle the solution to the immediate problem."
"One of the fist things we learn in angular is how to handle events."
"By using an Event Handler we'll handle the side effect of notifying a user totally separate from the command-side API i.e."
"I can barely handle the damage after drinking a few pints at the pub now, never mind drinking all night as I used to when I was at university."
"That’s why we tried our best to handle all of these for you and hope that it could help you focus on developing the core algorithms."
"The good news is that we do not need to speciy any command line arguments, because Experiment will handle those for us."
"Finally, statistical translation could handle any text without a human being, but not always at the level of human translators."
"Ethereum can only handle ~13 transactions per second , Bitcoin can only do 7."
"For comparison, Visa can handle 24,000 per second."
"For comparison, Visa can handle 24,000 per second."
"Westrum found that one of the most telling attributes about the dominant culture is how the people and processes within an organization handle information."
"Controllers are modules that provide functions to handle the requests."
"It’s simply a framework to help teams handle complex projects prone to change."
"Worse is when managers handle all planning activities, while the team has no place at the table."
"For those familiar with Git, you might be thinking, “Git cannot handle large files and directories.. at least it can’t with the same performance as it deals with small code files."
"I handle our Oracle finance systems for the company globally."
"But you can do whatever cardio exercise you enjoy and can handle."
"Our modern widescreen high definition LCD monitors can easily handle more."
"(I once tried to handle it on onActivityResult but it was never called)."
"The Kineticex platform can handle millions for transactions simultaneously."
"The vulnerable guy isn’t the one who can’t handle his emotions — it’s the one who isn’t afraid to feel them and show them."
"In other words, parallel programs handle many operations at once, while concurrent programs can switch between many operations over the same period of time."
"Pitof was director of second unit on this sequel, this American experience taught him he could handle a movie set."
"If we find out that a service is a bottleneck for the system, we can always start another instance to handle high amounts of traffic."
"People handle their everyday transactions from their wallets (like grocery shopping transactions)."
"After some observations from internal data, there exist some pending transaction in payment aggregator which lead to a root cause that the aggregator can’t handle the demand from Tokopedia."
"The firm will handle custody for cryptocurrencies such as bitcoin and will execute trades on multiple exchanges for investors such as hedge funds and family offices."
"The 72-year-old firm announced the launch of a separate company, Fidelity Digital Asset Services, on Monday that will handle cryptocurrency custody and trade execution for institutional investors."
"The new company will handle custody, or how to safely store digital assets."
"The tips below will help you identify the source of your fear so you can choose how to handle it."
"You can also go ahead and use other models but in my model, I used the K-fold cross-validation to handle overfitting largely possible due to class imbalance."
"It looks like they will be using a local payments platform to handle the transactions, and thus the airline itself will ultimately receive Fiat after a processor converts it for them."
"A CPU core can handle one thing at a time."
"Today, the bitcoin blockchain can settle 4 to 7 transactions per second, when Visa can handle around 1,650."
"Standard JS is key though, as specialized syntax such as TypeScript or JSX, both not standard, aren’t transpiled on the fly, as the toolchain required to handle this or that case is massive, and if included within µcompress, the “micro” prefix of the name would become instantly meaningless."
"CINDX is an platform that allows managers handle cryptocurrencies funds easily."
"RACI stands for Responsible (the people who handle the project, content, tactic, deliverables, etc."
"You have to learn what it takes to handle that role."
"People handle conflict instinctively."
"Believe you cannot handle conflict — you may withdraw from conflict situations, and give in rather than argue."
"In some other frameworks, you can actually just handle it more intuitively."
"This doesn’t mean you have to handle these types of effects in the same way, just know that it’s an option that may be more maintainable."
"He hired a relative to help him with the construction tasks that he, a middle-aged man, couldn’t handle himself."
"How can we handle the expected change?"
"All these, I’d argue, are networked urbanism, organised on different principles to the 20th-century model, which also has virtues when done well, because it can handle the baseload of a four-million-person city like Melbourne."
"It can handle many events like clicking sides, transitions, and more."
"If we don’t handle the exception, it will bubble up until our API returns a 500 to the caller."
"There are some basics that usually allow you to handle a bit more complicated abstractions on top of them."
"I’ll try to take a trivial example of Spring MVC application communicating with the world by means of REST Endpoint, this application will handle types conversion by different means."
"Then we inform the system by calling didMove(toParent:) and the system will handle the rest for displaying the view controller and calling the view controller’s necessary methods in its lifecycle like viewDidLoad , viewDidAppear etc."
"If he runs away or can’t handle it, well, that’s on him."
"I place a printed copy of my boarding pass inside any checked baggage in case the suitcase handle with my ID tag breaks off and I need to prove the bag is mine (as has happened to me)."
"Now your computer cannot handle this anymore."
"It leaves it to others to handle that it hit an asteroid."
"A lot of times people don’t know how to handle such situations and may come off as too strong or rough."
"Again, my question is then how do you handle such situations?"
"These privileged systems cannot handle all transactions, be easily audited, or used without trust."
"This guy at the bar looked like he could really handle me."
"I believe and hope that they will handle this properly for their customers."
"If you do it respectfully and can handle rejection well, it never blows up in your face."
"Therefore, the only way for your browser to play nice with your code is for you to tell your browser what’s in your code, and how you expect your browser to handle it."
"Coverage is the portion of questions or actions your users request that you have already trained your assistant to handle."
"Adding these intents to your assistant’s scope will increase your coverage and lead to an increase in conversations that your assistant can handle on its own."
"The students that the other teachers can’t handle or make a connection with."
"Although transaction fees have fallen drastically due to the current drop in price and network usage, the ‘fee problem’ proved that Bitcoin’s 1-megabyte block size simply could not handle the surge of users that accompanied its exponential rise."
"In that case, you can try to handle these cases with a different design altogether."
"colorSchemeContrast You can adapt your UI to handle the ColorSchemeContrast increased case by increasing the contrast ratio by providing alternate high contrast images and colors."
"Functions handle requests and events, contributing to live application behavior, streaming activities and integrations."
"Note that a container will only handle one request at a time."
"We handle extremely important assets, and we can’t settle for anything less than the best."
"In fact, Tom has gone so far as to suggest that without Syncio, he wouldn’t even try to handle inventory across two Shopify stores."
"We can also handle consent events to trigger user-facing side effects such as push notifying users when something happens or use event streaming to integrate with other services asynchronously."
"It can handle 100,000 transactions per second."
"I didn’t allow my children to see me get upset because I had to handle everything."
"Ideally, each core will handle one process, but in reality, the processes can run in a single core or even in serial if they have a short lifetime."
"Basically, the reason to have PIP is that company want to properly handle people who has undesired performance, by designing a plan to help them improve."
"Bitcoin, on the other hand, can handle up to 7 transactions per second with the current block size of 1MB."
"More often than not, your average Joe will have no clue about how different parts of the world handle cryptocurrency."
"Flavors allow us to handle different configurations for different environments — development, staging, production — adding custom assets and settings to each version of the app."
"The baseline in popular media representation shouldn’t be afraid to address these tensions, even between so-called white people and other races, as long as we have done our research to the best ability we can and we handle this with an intention to understand rather than racism."
"In these cases I write a script that does any other steps that the bundler system can’t handle."
"In these cases I write a script that does any other steps that the bundler system can’t handle."
"I use yargs or minimist to handle parsing the command line parameters."
"Letting a dedicated third side handle it for us gets us a looser."
"Investors also need to handle the taxes themselves instead of receiving a clear gains and losses report from a broker."
"Since each actor reacts on its own mailbox and there is guarantee that message pumping from that mailbox is guarantee to be on a single thread (A.K.A the Reactor pattern , similar to Node.js for example) the actor needs not to handle concurrency, context- switching and lock mechanism."
"Well, my family still can’t handle the phrase “climate change.” But at least you have the right attitude."
"Even though Howard only played in 5 games last season, he did handle Marquise Brown, Antonio Brown, Josh Gordon, and Keenan Allen and held them all to just 237 yards total."
"If you'd like to handle this another way, by all means go ahead - the important bits here are what we will be putting inside of the try part."
"RStudio will handle the rest."
"In addition, Chynge is licensed and regulated so that we can handle fiat currencies in a legal and compliant manner."
"If you can handle the dairy without any problems, it’s hands down some of the best tasting food on the planet."
"Thus, you should handle the requirements and changes in their class."
"It sounds pretty straightforward — if the current service can handle JSON, don’t you only have to change parts to FIT and you’re done?"
"The clients have to handle the success, failure, and error cases for both steps."
"Clearly how we handle our money is a very big deal to us."
"As a general consumer who makes daily transactions with merchants (like Amazon and Wal-Mart), I might wonder how I can use BitCoin to handle my purchasing needs."
"Now let’s handle interactivity using the panGesture ."
"Let’s handle each case now."
"Verge Currency also offer helpful integrations and tools that enable them to handle large scale transactions between merchants and small-scale private payments."
"It then combines all parameters into one request object and passes this to a Service which will handle the actual business logic."
"Relational databases generally don’t handle big data as well as NoSQL databases."
"You need to handle the missing values (and be smart about it), make sure that all the columns are in correct datatypes (date-time, integers, floats, strings, etc."
"And 0% of the time is the answer to finding yourself in that situation to write a letter or issue a policy statement about how you’d handle it differently or do a report."
"Centralized exchanges can handle a lot of volume without slowing down."
"Oscar shouts: “I’ll handle the money!” — Remember: Oscar is the guy who wanted to drink for free — can they really trust him?"
"Then, we will first handle the left side, in the case of which the value of the new node is less than the value of the current node."
"Second of all, the older I get the less I can handle intense workouts."
"For example, suppose you have a loan for an education you need to give back or credit cards with high-interest rates or the habit of spending extra money that you cannot handle."
"On the positive side, both are linear with regard to the number of instances in the training set (they are O(m)), so they handle large training sets efficiently, provided they can fit in memory."
"With the above in place and assuming you and your team know how to handle a CRM (so that you actually use it), you should be able to analyze the sales and activities’ data in your system, generate reports, measure KPIs, and display most relevant business metrics to the management."
"His son Charles was frantic, wondering if he were safe, if his spirits were broken, and how he would handle a crisis such as this at his age."
"It was our new feature to handle the emerging new European data privacy legislation (GDPR)."
"The rise of services like Facebook, Twitter, Snapchat, and Instagram was so meteoric that it has permanently shifted the way we handle online media in the years to follow."
"Incidentally, this is something that Google’s Firebase product does not handle very well."
"It would not matter how many transactions per second it could handle."
"Stress testing is important as they confirm the L2 DEX architecture can handle mass traffic, high volume, and low latency trades to allow competitiveness VS traditional CEX’s."
"Overall, I’ve learned how to handle myself in social situations and carry conversations if necessary."
"You can manipulate the DOM, handle events, create SVG elements and much more."
"This approach is fast, lightweight, and very scalable and it’s the main reason why Node can handle so many simultaneous connections."
"They can’t handle him,” Dex explained."
"But how do we handle mutability in iteration?"
"We can handle this mutation by doing function composition, or function chaining."
"The encoder and decoder handle the bulk of this latent space transformation, while the spectral projection layer enforces a key physical condition of incompressible fluid flow: divergence-free velocity fields."
"Third-party transactions: Blockchain can handle the increase in third-party transactions and claims made through personal digital devices."
"Blockchain can handle the increase in third-party transactions and claims made through personal digital devices."
"These words are the key to your assets, handle them like you would handle your most valuable thing."
"In fact, we recommended this to one company who was concerned that their data sets were far from “Big Data.” Bootstrapping can be a solution in this case because algorithms that utilize bootstrapping can be more robust and handle new data sets, depending on the methodology (boosting or bagging)."
"Lace rolled the dice, deciding with a duplex, she could handle both simultaneously."
"If you are used to another programming language like Java or JavaScript, then we know how to handle exception which is using try/catch block."
"There is no way the Pi is going to handle several billion data points in RStudio like my desktop can."
"I know how to handle my ego."
"And they can handle anything I dish out to them."
"We’ll handle them later."
"This graph is performant and can handle a huge number of points."
"Scalability determines whether your application can handle the load."
"They handle arguments differently."
"The Trip class will have an instance method called prepare , which will handle all the actions of preparing for a specific trip."
"The top nodes are parent node and other nodes connected to it are its child, we handle trees through this parent child relationship."
"In that case, for her safety and theirs, they usually just watch me handle her; then, if they want to they can feel her scales and soft oreo-patterned belly."
"Every time I tried to initiate a video chat with him, he’d say his Internet couldn’t handle it."
"It can handle 2 million transactions per second."
"If you’re hosting your own store, though, it’s a good idea to see how much traffic you can handle."
"There are the “handle_unknown_categorical” and “unknown_categorical_method” parameters which enable us to handle these unknown categories."
"This tool, will handle all library additions and code generations for a variety of peripherals like SPI, I2C, UART etc."
"Your code has to handle those situations Cost function: Please do spend time and energy to come up with a cost function."
"So far the tools we have to handle Level 3 are user centric design and problem setting processes."
"The conversation brings up many issues that revolve around being bisexual and how one is to handle the hard truth of living in a world that so often believes you can only be sexually attracted to a man or woman."
"According to Henninger, TV does not accurately portray the way police handle drug busts."
"Angular uses two different approaches to handle forms."
"Both approaches use different techniques to handle your form data."
"Games provide actual gameplay, network can handle serious amounts of player action and these new games just look so much better."
"In addition to handling complex queries, they need a database that can easily scale as their number of users grows: effortlessly handle high concurrency, maintain low-latency queries, and require low ops."
"“She’s a princess — and if you can’t handle her at her worst, you sure as hell don’t deserve her best,” says the Karen, quoting Marilyn Monroe."
"They just can’t handle the fact that you might find them uninteresting."
"Unlike an RDB, it is possible to handle “unstructured data” where different keys have different types of data."
"We try to handle every case of GADT and change the F[_] type param."
"This approach can only handle k-mers up to k=15, which is far more than what's usually used for vectorization."
"Like there were hard forks in both Bitcoin and Ethereum blockchain previously due to changes in block size, Qtum can handle such decisions by DGP, and thus preventing a fork."
"Few algorithms such as CATBOAST, decision-trees can handle categorical values very well but most of the algorithms expect numerical values to achieve state-of-the-art results."
"The intention of new examples was to handle one-offs but the new examples distorted the generalized regions."
"You’ll still have to do more validations, handle conflicts between resources and verify permissions on different operations."
"Many Copts during Islamic rule converted to Islam when it was merely an administrative procedure, something that helps one land a job or handle a problem that requires Islamic jurisprudence."
"I’ve found a lot of remote controlled toys disappointing because the remote control is spotty or it can’t handle much distance at all (in some cases, Mr. Austin goes out of range even though he hasn’t left the house)."
"Webpack can handle almost every concern you have when b web applications these days, but you will also likely need to read the manual (documentation) a lot to get it your build up and running to your liking."
"The grieving process is different for almost everyone, and we all handle loss in our own unique way."
"The operator overrides for the class to handle ‘==’ and ‘!=’, making some of the class’s uses more natural."
"For example, private node operators need confidence that their nodes can handle the load of their use case."
"It will be lighter and will handle just the contract and data formatting work, but will require a web3 browser, such as MetaMask or Mist."
"While our prototype functioned well, it was still unfit for widespread use: one solitary server hosted the entire process, could only handle a few requests at a time and, worst of all, the acquired data was stored on the server file system as html files."
"However, the essential idea is the organization of the system, which TDD cannot effectively handle alone."
"It also returns an error, so handle it carefully."
"We’d tell him how to handle it, but to witness the Klan right around the corner from our house was another level."
"Can a public whisper network at Ashoka handle the onslaught from a community that is small enough for you to be whispering about the person sitting next to you every week?"
"But what if your Copier is only black-and-white, and your Printer can handle color, too?"
"These skills are hard to learn alone, so I would strongly advise getting experience where you handle projects, work with others, and in teams."
"You’re strong and capable and determined and so — obviously — you can handle the conflict!"
"Cause, I thought, I can handle it."
"In order for you to handle anything that life comes at you, you will need patience and work ethic."
"If you can’t take care of the little things we have, how can you handle bigger things."
"But no matter how you’re wronged, one thing is certain: how you handle it is up to you."
"One of the letters of advice she received and redistributes is from C. S. Lovett of Personal Christianity and deals with how she should handle the fact that her son David is gay."
"For instance, in the ViewModel layer, to catch unexpected exceptions, we can use the catch operator to handle them and represent the suitable message to the user."
"If we want to handle those unexpected exceptions in a repository layer, we can use the catch operator and emit to the Flow using the emit functions with the latest cached news."
"I lived in a desiccated shell of a marriage for years and let you dress me down often for telling you I needed help or for trying to get a job and then losing it because my body couldn’t handle the strain."
"So far the tools we have to handle Level 3 are user centric design and problem setting processes."
"Thing is, I remember what most of them were like when they were single, and most of them didn’t handle it well."
"This function will handle the signals generated by that instance."
"This tool, will handle all library additions and code generations for a variety of peripherals like SPI, I2C, UART etc."
"This also means that, if this application were handling sensitive or private data, we would have to handle the fact that the data is being posted to the public chain."
"Despite Hunt’s recent increase in goal-line touches, the Browns coaching staff gave Chubb all the work he could handle, out-carrying Hunt 19–10 and seeing 2 goal-line carries to Hunt’s 1."
"Also, Bitcoin’s blockchain can only handle 3 to 4 transactions per second and Ethereum’s blockchain, the second biggest one, just 20."
"On the other side, Paypal and Visa can respectively handle 193 and 1.667 transactions per second."
"Because Redis Can easily handle 160K requests per second."
"Then you can handle 1000 uncached pages per the smallest AWS EC2 instance if you don’t have fixed Magento 2 Core and 3-d party modules."
"On-blockchain and second layer technologies are being developed to allow Ethereum to handle the transaction throughput of modern Internet applications."
"Parent component user interface and javascript controller that listen and handle the event."
"Contact us if you would like us to handle or assist you with the migration."
"Contact us if you would like us to handle or assist you with the migration."
"This is a key factor when you are launching or expanding your business, as it can allow you to be up and running in a matter of hours or days instead of the weeks or months it might take you if you handle it all yourself."
"You had the most rational reason to ditch your chatty co-worker who is bored out of her mind and cannot handle her own company."
"It got to the point I just couldn’t handle it and I wanted out."
"I couldn’t handle it."
"Two days later, I begged her to press charges again, explaining that the campus police would handle the matter."
"Mark and I handle most of the planning."
"I didn’t handle, what felt like, drastic changes very well."
"For example, the parent-child relationships in the view hierarchy determine which objects might handle a specific touch event."
"Clearly, it is obvious that informedness and markedness are sensitive to how techniques handle negatives."
"We can define sub-modules of our network to tackle the adjustment and weighting schemes for each comp, and autograd will handle backward-pass gradient propagation within and between the sub-modules of the net."
"However, some review argued that it can handle 1K TPS."
"The system will correctly handle changes in density, screen orientation, language, etc., for those states."
"For HTTP requests, it is even difficult to handle callbacks."
"Technical debt makes coding a lot slower as there are areas that you need to handle carefully in order not to cause any more problems."
"The next thing you need to do is to handle a new user connection, a new message, and last but not least a currently typing user."
"I was less about what I should have done, but more about how I will handle it in the future."
"(lets hope the transmission lines can handle the power load)."
"We also (9) stole a Nuclear station in Pennsylvania to supply us with power and hope the transmission lines can handle 308MW to one destination."
"Ultimately, only the individual can handle some decisions in the here and now."
"The bottom line is: these characters are just miserable people who don’t know why they’re miserable and they can’t handle it."
"easyBEATS wont handle that for you, but easyELK will."
"But there are one or two of them that believe that hustle means working what amounts to 20 hour days, but that’s ok because when you’re in your 20s, you can handle it."
"When you only get so little time off, vacation is viewed as a reward from hard work and a chance to relax and be luxurious, which is entirely fair but changes the way you plan and handle it."
"In the first stage, the Vite virtual machine starts to handle the request transaction."
"The Chief Executive Officer of Ripple, Brad Garlinghouse stated that the tech company is currently working with over a hundred banks including Banco Santander SA and Standard Chartered Plc to change the way these institutions handle their client’s payments."
"We need to handle its use knowing it will not be immediately available (it sends a separate network request), thinking about network errors and loading states."
"It can handle any cells of any animal species."
"The GDPR also stipulates penalties for organizations outside of the EU that handle customer information For US Businesses that do business with the EU and that do not properly comply with GDPR, fines of up to 4% can be levied on an organization’s global annual revenue."
"Actual transaction speed — What the coin can handle per current mathematical calculations."
"— What the coin can handle per current mathematical calculations."
"Theoretical Transaction Speed — What the coin will handle when the stars align."
"— What the coin will handle when the stars align."
"Claimed Actual Transaction Speed — What the coin can handle as claimed by the development team without any evidence or network volume."
"Visa states it can handle 24,000 tps, based on IBM testing conducted in 2010."
"The company says that it can handle up to 56,000."
"PayPal can handle around 193 transactions per second."
"Ripple can handle 1,500 tps and takes around 4 seconds to confirm."
"Stellar (a fork of ripple) can handle 1000 tps takes 2–5 seconds to confirm."
"(a fork of ripple) can handle 1000 tps takes 2–5 seconds to confirm."
"Bitcoin Cash can handle 61 tps and takes 60 minutes to confirm."
"Litecoin can handle 56 tps with Segwit and takes 30 minutes to confirm."
"Bitcoin can handle 7 tps and takes 60 minutes to confirm."
"Ethereum can handle 25 tps and takes 6 minutes to confirm."
"DASH can handle 28 tps and takes 15 minutes to confirm."
"You will need some strategies, and an IT consultant will handle IT strategies for you."
"Your IT consulting company can handle your digital marketing endeavors and ensures that it is as efficient as possible."
"Also, it can handle different kinds of responses with ease, including text and JSON, binary responses."
"This allows you to handle exceptions at compile-time, so that the program is guaranteed to run smoothly at the end user."
"You need to handle all exceptions on day one, and can’t just write a scratch code that runs and add exceptions later, like you’d do in Python."
"To ensure that the Firewall can handle the network speeds, the Threat Protection Mbps."
"We can see in the datasheet that this model can handle twice that."
"To understand the scale of the potential cost savings from a Conversational AI implementation, consider this — a single AI Assistant can handle the same volume of queries in a month that would require 600 human agents!"
"However, to dress up our output we’ll use an ERb layout template with some CSS to handle the syntax highlighting that Syntaxi provides for us."
"Perhaps you have learnt how to handle a boss who doesn’t appreciate whole truth."
"Half of America is so broke they can’t handle a $400 emergency, but congress is a millionaire’s club."
"Shawnee did not handle change very well and to be honest neither did I."
"Vega changes that significantly: each SP can now handle two FP16 operations in place of a single FP32 op, a feature AMD dubbed ‘Rapid Packed Math’."
"Thus, it seems we have discovered a valuable way in which your parents can give you an edge in applying for college, grad school, internships, and jobs: letting you handle the whole task on your own."
"Let the initial owners and dog caregivers handle this part."
"We have browsers now that can manage and handle their own components with custom elements, we’ve got CDNs ( content distribution networks) which can put our code out there within a customer’s reach."
"hmmm, 🤔 how can we handle that?"
"Why should my manager trust me to handle new things without any evidence that I could?"
"All I had shown was that I could handle my current workload."
"Obviously, I could handle not only my current tasks but I could be creative and find ways to provide additional value."
"I know how to handle my ego."
"It will handle all our scalar parameters."
"Without getting into the weeds of who you voted for, tell us how you plan to handle your virtual and in-person relationships moving forward."
"Remember, we’re erecting the scaffolding that will allow us to handle the hard work to come."
"This means our group is made up of nine teams, that each own a product area and the associated tech estate, plus our ops cops team, who handle in-hours support."
"This is powerful since the for-loop itself will handle the suspending and possible closing of the Channel."
"Websites with high traffic volumes, such as the New York Times, can now publish interactive graphs powered by the statistical modelling capabilities because the number of Dash servers can easily scale to handle the computational load."
"Depending on the type of the value, we will handle it in a different way."
"I want to handle edge cases where other data structures based on JavaScript objects (such as arrays, sets, null, etc) will return false since they are not just a plain object."
"An overwhelmed grief counselor could not handle all the tears."
"Mindfulness meditation can help us to handle our stress."
"This tool, will handle all library additions and code generations for a variety of peripherals like SPI, I2C, UART etc."
"Although it can’t handle huge quantities of data like SQL databases, Excel is great for doing analysis quickly."
"In an event where the user enters text, the NachoTextView allows the ChipTerminatorHandler to handle the event."
"Under such scenario, what 1D CNN do is not analyze spacial but temporal relations of input, which allow 1D CNN to handle time series forecasting problem."
"They learn first hand at events, such as SneakerCon, how to handle customers, create sales pitches to potential buyers and ultimately, build their confidence with each sale they make."
"But I can handle this."
"But when someone can’t laugh at themselves, it shows that they haven’t really figured out how to handle those insecurities, how to manage them, or how to express them in a healthy way."
"The kinky chef needed to make it clear that he was skilled at cooking and bondage and couldn’t handle any insinuations to the contrary."
"The people who can’t seem to handle a little playful teasing or can’t make jokes at their own expense are usually the ones who will do whatever it takes to avoid owning up to their mistakes."
"I felt like a fraud, and my conscience couldn’t handle it."
"Then you can think about how you should handle the situation, if you can."
"And yes, people can handle that, but it’s a lot to handle."
"I need to handle all the “ifs!” I then realize it is just part of how we code; we try to make sure of all the worst cases so we can easily handle them."
"I promise to handle something for you forever — -and I will continuously innovate, repackage, and evolve to make sure I am providing you with the best solution."
"In this article, we’ll look at how we can handle events in JavaScript."
"That first implementation allowed us to handle mouse events."
"Meaning… women learn faster, are more open to change, can handle pain, congregate together, will ask for help and, they lead the household in the way of rearing children and caring for the nurturing of the home."
"The process listening locally can handle HTTPS messages, provided it is properly configured and it has access to the private part of the server certificate."
"This is to help manage demand, guarantee our servers can handle the load, and help learn from our Early-Bird users the next courses of action."
"A dedicated company will handle all maintenance and tenant requests while the investor takes the payments."
"Single thread can handle requests over many sockets i.e."
"As request handling is synchronous, this model requires many threads to handle requests."
"Deeply hurt, the young man could not handle the emotional pain."
"Now that we have added more web servers, our web server cluster technically can handle infinite amount of HTTP requests."
"Our one single database server can no longer store all the data or efficiently handle all the read and write requests ."
"Now say you want to figure out the probability of drawing another king — the answer will depend on how you handle replacement."
"The irony is that there is no school of life that teaches you how to handle talent or privilege and you either use it to your advantage or get complacent."
"A blue-screen happened when the computer’s baseline code didn’t know how to handle an unknown condition."
"Dev Ops needs only to handle the code versioning, but ML Ops needs to handle both the data and model code versioning."
"In a stateless widget you don’t have this kind of context persistence, so how do we handle that?"
"In fact, we handle the code signing through Xcode."
"Bitcoin can currently handle a maximum of 7 transactions per second (TPS)."
"We use circular queue in which we just handle the front and rear a little bit differently and it shows astonishing results."
"There are two more queues doubly queue and circular doubly queue these can also handle the issue really well and in all these three circular doubly is the best."
"As this function can either resolve or reject, we need to handle both scenarios."
"Nginx is a reverse proxy and web-server which can handle SSL connections for your applications and web content."
"Countries who feel confident that their financial systems can handle innovation will nurture the industry."
"Due to the various ways different industries handle data and put it to use, there have been many different job titles created for those who use data on different levels."
"Transaction per Second (TPS) — Stratis claims to handle up to 20K transactions per second as it focuses on application in financial scenario."
"— Stratis claims to handle up to 20K transactions per second as it focuses on application in financial scenario."
"Claims to handle up to 20K transaction per second; current transaction speed on average is 6 min."
"Metasploitable shouldn’t need more than 256MB of ram but you can add more if your system can handle it."
"The Brokers as stateless components handle the partitioned parts of topics: store the received messages to the cluster, retrieve messages from the cluster, and send to the consumers on demand."
"All in all, I believe in us, the developers, and that we can handle the transitions well."
"Offshore companies generally expect the software to be previously designed; they plan to handle the subsequent steps."
"When fresh technology arrived, they couldn’t handle that speed."
"He said I could handle it, that it was my lot in this world to be brutalized — that I would survive."
"onCompletion : We will get the result of the request and handle the success or failure cases just as you would on the delegate methods for the authorization controller."
"As a data engineer, all you need to do is to concentrate on writing your query and dbt will handle the materialisation for you!"
"How you handle this can be a big indication of how successful you’ll be in this lifestyle."
"Simply ignoring the Title IX regulations however, creates confusion on how institutions are to handle incidents of misconduct."
"Knowing this — accepting that struggle is a fundamental part of life on earth, is a huge step that all of us need to take if ever we wish to handle change."
"(A comment is always written by a user, so we will handle the User Model’s relationship to the Comment Model as a typical one-to-many.)"
"Prophet has performed better as it can handle seasonality and trends with minimal hyper-parameter tuning."
"In case it fails, you can gracefully handle the error and communicate it to your users."
"But a question for any political entity is, how do you handle a short-term fiscal hit?"
"An experienced Express developer can handle both the frontend and backend tasks."
"I recommend you make a test site in order to make sure that your site can handle the update."
"If you are creating rvalue instances of your class, add a constructor in your class which can handle these unnamed entities."
"I had good self-awareness, so I knew what projects I could handle and which ones were a bit over my head."
"Though the French had often worked closely with the papacy, the regional powers of Occitania held the interfaith ongoings of their cities and how to handle them as being the purview of local authorities."
"I figured I could handle balloons and an executive decision regarding breakfast, and I left her to doze."
"For the same reason, credit card technology cannot handle so many frequent small payments without the credit card fees vastly overshadowing the actual billing."
"In this way, the more bitcoin a node has, the more traffic they can handle on the LN and hence the more fees they can collect."
"This means that the network might handle thousands, if not millions of transactions before a single transaction is broadcast to the bitcoin blockchain."
"What the LN does is not eliminate competition for scarce block space; instead it amplifies the amount of transactions that a full block can handle before on chain fees have to rise."
"But I think it’s better to subclass (using trait, case class, case object) our result types and make consumers handle all result types in such scenarios (rather than using Either)."
"If you don’t handle it well, you might find yourself in deep debt within a short period of time."
"In this tutorial we learned how to read files, handle path issues, encoding issues, validating the dataframe format and a way to detect encoding in files."
"Despite it’s phenomenal efforts, Super Mario 64’s primitive camera did not handle this well, and modern gamers, spoilt as we are, have been noticing this issue rearing it’s ugly head while replaying on the Switch (although there are a few tricks to using it)."
"The emulator accepts HTTP requests which it then converts to JSON events which the Lambda function can handle."
"And in the minority of the cases, some people even handle it with aggression."
"The input folder was really easily and simple `cd` command handle it all but github token as a input was displayed in the pipe logs, a hell of security issue."
"Also, things like whether it’s ok to solicit outside investors, whether you do it privately, how you handle it, and where you register your offering."
"When 80% of your customer care is fully automated, you can effectively handle a spike in customer queries without the need for additional investment in human resources."
"This project tasked us to develop a customer facing web portal which handles BT’s integral business activities and handle the customers from the UK and Ireland."
"Can Gotham City Police Department, Jim Gordan, and Batman handle a foe who is waging war against Gotham’s justice system (or what’s really more a lack of)?"
"We’re using OmniAuth to handle auth here, which is absolutely awesome."
"Now the only problem you have is how do you handle deployments to a million of devices located all across the world?"
"I stood up, debating on how I should handle the situation."
"Although statistical methods can be very powerful, but these methods make several stringent assumptions on the types of data and their distribution, and typically can only handle a limited number of variables."
"I was skeptical about how I was going to handle my side business with so little time in hand."
"Trump expands ICE to handle domestic insurgency and suppress dissidents."
"Now user sends http://IP_of_LoadBalancer/view-profile to Load Balancer Load Balancer fetches from state store which server will handle the request from user."
"Clearly, no other server can handle the request because they don’t know about the state of the user."
"As such, a DataFrame can handle petabytes of data."
"If I couldn’t handle a baby who I could quickly (and carefully) hand back, how would I deal with a newborn of my own?"
"So, I reluctantly agreed to handle everything without the courts."
"That might mean some potential customers are unable to visit the web-store on Black Friday because the server can’t handle the number of requests."
"This enables these nodes to handle historical queries too, something lightweight nodes are not capable of."
"Carol: “I don’t want to handle my tokens all the time for each drink."
"It was synchronous and did not handle server side errors gracefully, resulting in a failure rate of over 50%."
"It uses a master process and a small group of worker processes to handle requests."
"The worker process will handle this request."
"With the right system tuning, Nginx can handle hundreds of thousands of concurrent connections per worker thread."
"It is single-threaded and it uses an event loop to handle requests."
"Epoll, Kqueue, and event ports handle I/O polling on Unix systems (epoll is used on Linux, kqueue on BSD, event ports on Solaris)."
"In that case, issuers can pay for their users transactions with CLN or their issued Community Currency while the issuer \ third party backed service will handle the exchanging, paying and transmitting the transaction to the main chain."
"My brain could not seem to handle it well."
"I told my sister that I would handle it."
"I had to conference call my sister on the line who gave approval for me to handle arrangements on her behalf."
"I called the Navy chief and he said that we would handle it."
"This concludes the story of how one can handle the Large Class Imbalance problem using the fraud detection scenario as an example."
"Additionally, we define how this aggregate needs to handle a command."
"Calls that cross the language barrier are not free, especially when calling a ruby function from C, so the best practice is to handle as much as possible inside a big C function."
"I couldn’t handle the hollering."
"How do you handle anger?"
"For some reason they thought I could handle this."
"Unfortunately, big government cannot handle the responsibility-not in its current incarnation, and certainly not without instituting laws and procedures that would seem totalitarian even to our post-9/11 eyes."
"No need to manage it yourself, just let Github handle it for you."
"Let UX Engineers work closely with UX/Design to create great designs, interactions, prototypes, etc and let JavaScript Engineers handle all the data parts."
"How much complexity can people handle?"
"We also used GestureDetector to handle touch events."
"And they can’t handle it so they anxiously attach to him."
"Nevermind that it had a bit of a gross sexist “women just can’t handle casual sex because they’re too feely” vibe."
"How does Nimiq handle all these issues?"
"Gitlab handle CI/CD processes through a .gitlab-ci.yml file that has to be a the root of your project."
"It’s less verbose and error-prone and leverages Swift’s powerful type system to handle all of the details."
"You need to manually handle errors and cast the type Any to Swift foundation types."
"The function — func.js — uses the Fn FDK framework — to handle HTTP requests that are handed to the function for procesing."
"We had a need to display a list of items, which if you know Android development you’ll know this is going to utilize a RecyclerView, but in this particular case we wanted to make sure that the list that we are displaying can handle a varying number of items without dominating the screen space."
"How does DSLM handle typical design study pitfalls?"
"By making its precepts vague, and by making it difficult to change or evade, he enabled the Constitution to handle and limit the power of those “factions” which, by pressing their interests against their counterparts’, promote either political instability or, if victorious, political tyranny."
"Combined with the Radeon Vega 8 Graphics it offers, it can handle some light gaming with ease."
"It can handle some light gaming with ease."
"Next we can add more tests to handle POST, PUT and DELETE."
"This makes the algorithm more effective since it can handle realistic data."
"It’s more so that I have no idea how America is going to handle it, and I’ll be able to leave.” The fear is not unfounded."
"Trust me, Galactic Federation, we humans can handle it."
"We know I can’t handle that."
"We treat money as if it were dirty: I handle cash with my left hand while my right hand pinches my nose shut against the dreadful smell."
"If the specific node gets a response from higher nodes, it gets to know that there are active higher nodes in the cluster and it stays back from the election and let the other nodes handle the election."
"We also handle the default case using _ ."
"When emit is called internally, it passes the result of our impure code (if any) back to our pure application, where we can handle it within subscriptions ."
