"a ever-growing datasets inside observational astronomy have challenged scientists inside many aspects, including an efficient and interactive data exploration and visualization. many tools have been developed to confront this challenge. however, they usually focus on displaying a actual images or focus on visualizing patterns within catalogs inside the predefined way. inside this paper we introduce vizic, the python visualization library that builds a connection between images and catalogs through an interactive map of a sky region. vizic visualizes catalog data over the custom background canvas with the help of a shape, size and orientation of each object inside a catalog. a displayed objects inside a map are highly interactive and customizable comparing to those inside a images. these objects should be filtered by or colored by their properties, such as redshift and magnitude. they also should be sub-selected with the help of the lasso-like tool considering further analysis with the help of standard python functions from in the jupyter notebook. furthermore, vizic allows custom overlays to be appended dynamically on top of a sky map. we have initially implemented several overlays, namely, voronoi, delaunay, minimum spanning tree and healpix grid layers, which are helpful considering visualizing large-scale structure. all these overlays should be generated, added or removed interactively with one line of code. a catalog data was stored inside the non-relational database, and a interfaces were developed inside javascript and python to work within jupyter notebook, which allows to create custom widgets, user generated scripts to analyze and plot a data selected/displayed inside a interactive map. this unique design makes vizic the very powerful and flexible interactive analysis tool. vizic should be adopted inside variety of exercises, considering example, data inspection, clustering analysis, galaxy alignment studies, outlier identification or simply large-scale visualizations."
"we propose the framework considering optimal $t$-matchings excluding a prescribed $t$-factors inside bipartite graphs. a proposed framework was the generalization of a nonbipartite matching problem and includes several problems, such as a triangle-free $2$-matching, square-free $2$-matching, even factor, and arborescence problems. inside this paper, we demonstrate the unified understanding of these problems by commonly extending previous important results. we solve our problem under the reasonable assumption, which was sufficiently broad to include a specific problems listed above. we first present the min-max theorem and the combinatorial algorithm considering a unweighted version. we then provide the linear programming formulation with dual integrality and the primal-dual algorithm considering a weighted version. the key ingredient of a proposed algorithm was the technique to shrink forbidden structures, which corresponds to a techniques of shrinking odd cycles, triangles, squares, and directed cycles inside edmonds' blossom algorithm, the triangle-free $2$-matching algorithm, the square-free $2$-matching algorithm, and an arborescence algorithm, respectively."
"nanostructures with open shell transition metal or molecular constituents host often strong electronic correlations and are highly sensitive to atomistic material details. this tutorial review discusses method developments and applications of theoretical approaches considering a realistic description of a electronic and magnetic properties of nanostructures with correlated electrons. first, a implementation of the flexible interface between density functional theory and the variant of dynamical mean field theory (dmft) highly suitable considering a simulation of complex correlated structures was explained and illustrated. on a dmft side, this interface was largely based on recent developments of quantum monte carlo and exact diagonalization techniques allowing considering efficient descriptions of general four fermion coulomb interactions, reduced symmetries and spin-orbit coupling, which are explained here. with a examples of a cr (001) surfaces, magnetic adatoms, and molecular systems it was shown how a interplay of hubbard u and hund's j determines charge and spin fluctuations and how these interactions drive different sorts of correlation effects inside nanosystems. non-local interactions and correlations present the particular challenge considering a theory of low dimensional systems. we present our method developments addressing these two challenges, i.e., advancements of a dynamical vertex approximation and the combination of a constrained random phase approximation with continuum medium theories. we demonstrate how non-local interaction and correlation phenomena are controlled not only by dimensionality but also by coupling to a environment which was typically important considering determining a physics of nanosystems."
"stars are self-gravitating fluids inside which pressure, buoyancy, rotation and magnetic fields provide a restoring forces considering global modes of oscillation. pressure and buoyancy energetically dominate, while rotation and magnetism are generally assumed to be weak perturbations and often ignored. however, observations of anomalously weak dipole mode amplitudes inside red giant stars suggest that the substantial fraction of these are subject to an additional source of damping localised to their core region, with indirect evidence pointing to a role of the deeply buried magnetic field. it was also known that inside many instances a gravity-mode character of affected modes was preserved, but so far no effective damping mechanism has been proposed that accommodates this aspect. here we present such the mechanism, which damps a oscillations of stars harbouring magnetised cores using resonant interactions with standing alfvén modes of high harmonic index. a damping rates produced by this mechanism are quantitatively on par with those associated with turbulent convection, and inside a range required to explain observations, considering realistic stellar models and magnetic field strengths. our results suggest that magnetic fields should provide an efficient means of damping stellar oscillations without needing to disrupt a internal structure of a modes, and lay a groundwork considering an extension of a theory of global stellar oscillations that incorporates these effects."
"deep neural perception and control networks are likely to be the key component of self-driving vehicles. these models need to be explainable - they should provide easy-to-interpret rationales considering their behavior - so that passengers, insurance companies, law enforcement, developers etc., should understand what triggered the particular behavior. here we explore a use of visual explanations. these explanations take a form of real-time highlighted regions of an image that causally influence a network's output (steering control). our idea behind the method was two-stage. inside a first stage, we use the visual attention model to train the convolution network end-to-end from images to steering angle. a attention model highlights image regions that potentially influence a network's output. some of these are true influences, but some are spurious. we then apply the causal filtering step to determine which input regions actually influence a output. this produces more succinct visual explanations and more accurately exposes a network's behavior. we demonstrate a effectiveness of our model on three datasets totaling 16 hours of driving. we first show that training with attention does not degrade a performance of a end-to-end network. then we show that a network causally cues on the variety of features that are used by humans while driving."
"analyzing job hopping behavior was important considering understanding job preference and career progression of working individuals. when analyzed at a workforce population level, job hop analysis helps to gain insights of talent flow among different jobs and organizations. traditionally, surveys are conducted on job seekers and employers to study job hop behavior. beyond surveys, job hop behavior should also be studied inside the highly scalable and timely manner with the help of the data driven idea behind the method inside response to fast-changing job landscape. fortunately, a advent of online professional networks (opns) has made it possible to perform the large-scale analysis of talent flow. inside this paper, we present the new data analytics framework to analyze a talent flow patterns of close to 1 million working professionals from three different countries/regions with the help of their publicly-accessible profiles inside an established opn. as opn data are originally generated considering professional networking applications, our proposed framework re-purposes a same data considering the different analytics task. prior to performing job hop analysis, we devise the job title normalization procedure to mitigate a amount of noise inside a opn data. we then devise several metrics to measure a amount of work experience required to take up the job, to determine that existence duration of a job (also known as a job age), and a correlation between a above metric and propensity of hopping. we also study how job hop behavior was related to job promotion/demotion. lastly, we perform connectivity analysis at job and organization levels to derive insights on talent flow as well as job and organizational competitiveness."
"a need to reason about uncertainty inside large, complex, and multi-modal datasets has become increasingly common across modern scientific environments. a ability to transform samples from one distribution $p$ to another distribution $q$ enables a solution to many problems inside machine learning (e.g. bayesian inference, generative modeling) and has been actively pursued from theoretical, computational, and application perspectives across a fields of information theory, computer science, and biology. performing such transformations, inside general, still leads to computational difficulties, especially inside high dimensions. here, we consider a problem of computing such "measure transport maps" with efficient and parallelizable methods. under a mild assumptions that $p$ need not be known but should be sampled from, and that a density of $q$ was known up to the proportionality constant, and that $q$ was log-concave, we provide inside this work the convex optimization problem pertaining to relative entropy minimization. we show how an empirical minimization formulation and polynomial chaos map parameterization should allow considering learning the transport map between $p$ and $q$ with distributed and scalable methods. we also leverage findings from nonequilibrium thermodynamics to represent a transport map as the composition of simpler maps, each of which was learned sequentially with the transport cost regularized version of a aforementioned problem formulation. we provide examples of our framework within a context of bayesian inference considering a boston housing dataset and generative modeling considering handwritten digit images from a mnist dataset."
"period approximation was one of a central topics inside astronomical time series analysis, where data was often unevenly sampled. especially challenging are studies of stellar magnetic cycles, as there a periods looked considering are of a order of a same length than a datasets themselves. a datasets often contain trends, a origin of which was either the real long-term cycle or an instrumental effect, but these effects cannot be reliably separated, while they should lead to erroneous period determinations if not properly handled. inside this study we aim at developing the method that should handle a trends properly, and by performing extensive set of testing, we show that this was a optimal procedure when contrasted with methods that do not include a trend directly to a model. a effect of a form of a noise (whether constant or heteroscedastic) on a results was also investigated. we introduce the bayesian generalised lomb-scargle periodogram with trend (bglst), which was the probabilistic linear regression model with the help of gaussian priors considering a coefficients and uniform prior considering a frequency parameter. we show, with the help of synthetic data, that when there was no prior information on whether and to what extent a true model of a data contains the linear trend, a introduced bglst method was preferable to a methods which either detrend a data or leave a data untrended before fitting a periodic model. whether to use noise with different than constant variance inside a model depends on a density of a data sampling as well as on a true noise type of a process."
"nowadays data compressors are applied to many problems of text analysis, but many such applications are developed outside of a framework of mathematical statistics. inside this paper we overcome this obstacle and show how several methods of classical mathematical statistics should be developed based on applications of a data compressors."
"inside this work, the many-body potential of nb considering radiation damage simulation is developed based on eam, and most of a point defects of nb should be predicted properly by this potential. by with the help of a constructed potential, a direction-specific threshold displacement energies (tde) and displacement cascades up to 20 kev of nb were performed through molecular dynamics simulations. a calculated results of tde are inside good agreement with previous work considering v, mo and experimental measurements. lowest tde is found inside <100> direction, and local minas of tde were found inside three low-index directions, which has relation: ed[100]<ed[111]<ed[110]. a evolution of displacement cascades, number of a created point defects, a cascade efficiency a clustering of point defects, and temperature role of these parameters at different pka energies were systematic investigated. it was found that a cascade efficiency was low and it was should be fitted by the power function as many published work did. a fraction of clustered point defects obtained inside this work was low, and only some small clusters were formed at a end of thermal spike. as a temperature increases, a productions of point defects and cascade efficiency were somewhat decreases, however, a fraction of clustered point defects decreases more obvious."
"we study a problem of extracting the selective connector considering the given set of query vertices $q \subseteq v$ inside the graph $g = (v,e)$. the selective connector was the subgraph of $g$ which exhibits some cohesiveness property, and contains a query vertices but does not necessarily connect them all. relaxing a connectedness requirement allows a connector to detect multiple communities and to be tolerant to outliers. we achieve this by introducing a new measure of network inefficiency and by instantiating our search considering the selective connector as a problem of finding a minimum inefficiency subgraph. we show that a minimum inefficiency subgraph problem was np-hard, and devise efficient algorithms to approximate it. by means of several case studies inside the variety of application domains (such as human brain, cancer, and food networks), we show that our minimum inefficiency subgraph produces high-quality solutions, exhibiting all a desired behaviors of the selective connector."
"we measure a stellar mass function (smf) of galaxies inside a cosmos field up to $z\sim6$. we select them inside a near-ir bands of a cosmos2015 catalogue, which includes ultra-deep photometry from ultravista-dr2, splash, and subaru/hyper-suprimecam. at $z>2.5$ we use new precise photometric redshifts with error $\sigma_z=0.03(1+z)$ and an outlier fraction of $12\%$, estimated by means of a unique spectroscopic sample of cosmos. a increased exposure time inside a dr2, along with our panchromatic detection strategy, allow us to improve a stellar mass completeness at high $z$ with respect to previous ultravista catalogues. we also identify passive galaxies through the robust colour-colour selection, extending their smf approximate up to $z=4$. our work provides the comprehensive view of galaxy stellar mass assembly between $z=0.1$ and 6, considering a first time with the help of consistent estimates across a entire redshift range. we fit these measurements with the schechter function, correcting considering eddington bias. we compare a smf fit with a halo mass function predicted from $\lambda$cdm simulations. we find that at $z>3$ both functions decline with the similar slope inside a high-mass end. this feature could be explained assuming that a mechanisms that quench star formation inside massive haloes become less effective at high redshift; however further work needs to be done to confirm this scenario. concerning a smf low-mass end, it shows the progressive steepening as moving towards higher redshifts, with $\alpha$ decreasing from $-1.47_{-0.02}^{+0.02}$ at $z\simeq0.1$ to $-2.11_{-0.13}^{+0.30}$ at $z\simeq5$. this slope depends on a characterisation of a observational uncertainties, which was crucial to properly remove a eddington bias. we show that there was currently no consensus on a method to quantify such errors: different error models result inside different best-fit schechter parameters. [abridged]"
"we show that an embedding inside euclidean space based on tropical geometry generates stable sufficient statistics considering barcodes. inside topological data analysis, barcodes are multiscale summaries of algebraic topological characteristics that capture a `shape' of data; however, inside practice, they have complex structures which make them difficult to use inside statistical settings. a sufficiency result presented inside this work allows considering classical probability distributions to be assumed on a tropical geometric representation of barcodes. this makes the variety of parametric statistical inference methods amenable to barcodes, all while maintaining their initial interpretations. more specifically, we show that exponential family distributions may be assumed, and that likelihood functions considering persistent homology may be constructed. we conceptually demonstrate sufficiency and illustrate its utility inside persistent homology dimensions 0 and 1 with concrete parametric applications to hiv and avian influenza data."
"here we report a measurement of a interfacial spin accumulation induced by a spin hall effect inside pt and w thin films with the help of magneto-optical kerr microscopy. we show that a kerr rotation has opposite sign inside pt and w and scales linearly with current density. by comparing a experimental results with ab-initio calculations of a spin hall and magneto-optical kerr effects, we quantitatively determine a current-induced spin accumulation at a pt interface as $5*10^{-12} \mu_b$a$^{-1}$cm$^2$ per atom. from thickness-dependent measurements, we determine a spin diffusion length inside the single pt film to be $11 \pm 3$ nm, which was significantly larger compared to that of pt adjacent to the magnetic layer."
"advances inside a field of inverse reinforcement learning (irl) have led to sophisticated inference frameworks that relax a original modeling assumption of observing an agent behavior that reflects only the single intention. instead of learning the global behavioral model, recent irl methods divide a demonstration data into parts, to account considering a fact that different trajectories may correspond to different intentions, e.g., because they were generated by different domain experts. inside this work, we go one step further: with the help of a intuitive concept of subgoals, we build upon a premise that even the single trajectory should be explained more efficiently locally within the certain context than globally, enabling the more compact representation of a observed behavior. based on this assumption, we build an implicit intentional model of a agent's goals to forecast its behavior inside unobserved situations. a result was an integrated bayesian prediction framework that significantly outperforms existing irl solutions and provides smooth policy estimates consistent with a expert's plan. most notably, our framework naturally handles situations where a intentions of a agent change over time and classical irl algorithms fail. inside addition, due to its probabilistic nature, a model should be straightforwardly applied inside active learning scenarios to guide a demonstration process of a expert."
"inside 1996, huisken-yau proved that every three-dimensional riemannian manifold should be uniquely foliated near infinity by stable closed surfaces of constant mean curvature (cmc) if it was asymptotically equal to a (spatial) schwarzschild solution. with the help of their method, rigger proved a same theorem considering riemannian manifolds being asymptotically equal to a (spatial) (schwarzschild-)anti-de sitter solution. this is generalized to asymptotically hyperbolic manifolds by neves-tian, chodosh, and a author at the later stage. inside this work, we prove a reverse implication as a author already did inside a euclidean setting, i.e. any three-dimensional riemannian manifold was asymptotically hyperbolic if it (and only if) possesses the cmc-cover satisfying certain geometric curvature estimates, the uniqueness property, and each surface has controlled instability. as toy application of these geometric characterizations of asymptotically euclidean and hyperbolic manifolds, we present the method considering replacing an asymptotically hyperbolic by an asymptotically euclidean end and apply this method to prove that a hawking mass of a cmc-surfaces was bounded by their limit being a total mass of a asymptotically hyperbolic manifold, where equality holds only considering a t=0-slice of a (schwarzschild-)anti-de sitter spacetime."
"fitzpatrick's variational representation of maximal monotone operators was here extended to the class of pseudo-monotone operators inside banach spaces. on this basis, a initial-value problem associated with a first-order flow of such an operator was here reformulated as the minimization principle, extending the method that is pioneered by brezis, ekeland and nayroles considering gradient flows. this formulation was used to prove that a problem was stable w.r.t.\ arbitrary perturbations not only of data but also of operators. this was achieved by with the help of a notion of evolutionary $\gamma$-convergence w.r.t.\ the nonlinear topology of weak type. these results are applied to a cauchy problem considering quasilinear parabolic pdes. this provides a structural compactness and stability of a model of several physical phenomena: nonlinear diffusion, incompressible viscous flow, phase transitions, and so on."
"a goal of online display advertising was to entice users to "convert" (i.e., take the pre-defined action such as making the purchase) after clicking on a ad. an important measure of a value of an ad was a probability of conversion. a focus of this paper was a development of the computationally efficient, accurate, and precise estimator of conversion probability. a challenges associated with this approximation problem are a delays inside observing conversions and a size of a data set (both number of observations and number of predictors). two models have previously been considered as the basis considering estimation: the logistic regression model and the joint model considering observed conversion statuses and delay times. fitting a former was simple, but ignoring a delays inside conversion leads to an under-estimate of conversion probability. on a other hand, a latter was less biased but computationally expensive to fit. our proposed estimator was the compromise between these two estimators. we apply our results to the data set from criteo, the commerce marketing company that personalizes online display advertisements considering users."
"context: recent xmm-newton observations have revealed that iras 17020+4544 was the very unusual example of black hole wind-produced feedback by the moderately luminous agn inside the spiral galaxy. aims: since a source was known considering being the radio emitter, we investigated about a presence and a properties of the non-thermal component. methods: we observed iras 17020+4544 with a very long baseline array at 5, 8, 15, and 24 ghz within the month of a 2014 xmm-newton observations. we further analysed archival data taken inside 2000 and 2012. results: we detect a source at 5 ghz and on short baselines at 8 ghz. at 15 and 24 ghz, a source was below our baseline sensitivity considering fringe fitting, indicating a lack of prominent compact features. a morphology was that of an asymmetric double, with significant diffuse emission. a spectrum between 5 and 8 ghz was rather steep ($s(\nu)\sim\nu^{-(1.0\pm0.2)}$). our re-analysis of a archival data at 5 and 8 ghz provides results consistent with a new observations, suggesting that flux density and structural variability are not important inside this source. we put the limit on a separation speed between a main components of $<0.06c$. conclusions: iras 17020+4544 shows interesting features of several classes of objects: its properties are typical of compact steep spectrum sources, low power compact sources, radio-emitting narrow line seyfert 1 galaxies. however, it should not be classified inside any of these categories, remaining so far the one-of-a-kind object."
"aims. we aim to show how encounters with low-mass satellite galaxies may alter a bar formation inside the milky way-like disc galaxy. methods. we use high-resolution n-body simulations of the disc galaxy prone to mild bar instability. considering realistic initial conditions of satellites, we take advantage of cosmological simulations of milky way-like dark matter haloes. results. a satellites may have the significant impact on a time of bar formation. some runs with satellites demonstrate the delay, while others show an advancement inside bar formation compared to a isolated run, with such time differences reaching $\sim$ 1 gyr. meanwhile, a final bar configuration, including its very appearance and a bar characteristics such as a pattern speed and a exponential growth rate of its amplitude are independent of a number of encounters and their orbits. a contribution of satellites with masses below $10^9 m_{\odot}$ was insignificant, unless their pericentre distances are small. we suggest that a encounters act indirectly using inducing perturbations across a disc that evolve to delayed waves inside a central part and interfere with an emerging seed bar. a predicted effect considering a present-day host galaxy was expected to be even more significant at redshifts $z \gtrsim 0.5$."
"we consider a problem of low canonical polyadic (cp) rank tensor completion. the completion was the tensor whose entries agree with a observed entries and its rank matches a given cp rank. we analyze a manifold structure corresponding to a tensors with a given rank and define the set of polynomials based on a sampling pattern and cp decomposition. then, we show that finite completability of a sampled tensor was equivalent to having the certain number of algebraically independent polynomials among a defined polynomials. our proposed idea behind the method results inside characterizing a maximum number of algebraically independent polynomials inside terms of the simple geometric structure of a sampling pattern, and therefore we obtain a deterministic necessary and sufficient condition on a sampling pattern considering finite completability of a sampled tensor. moreover, assuming that a entries of a tensor are sampled independently with probability $p$ and with the help of a mentioned deterministic analysis, we propose the combinatorial method to derive the lower bound on a sampling probability $p$, or equivalently, a number of sampled entries that guarantees finite completability with high probability. we also show that a existing result considering a matrix completion problem should be used to obtain the loose lower bound on a sampling probability $p$. inside addition, we obtain deterministic and probabilistic conditions considering unique completability. it was seen that a number of samples required considering finite or unique completability obtained by a proposed analysis on a cp manifold was orders-of-magnitude lower than that was obtained by a existing analysis on a grassmannian manifold."
"datasets are often used multiple times and each successive analysis may depend on a outcome of previous analyses. standard techniques considering ensuring generalization and statistical validity do not account considering this adaptive dependence. the recent line of work studies a challenges that arise from such adaptive data reuse by considering a problem of answering the sequence of "queries" about a data distribution where each query may depend arbitrarily on answers to previous queries. a strongest results obtained considering this problem rely on differential privacy -- the strong notion of algorithmic stability with a important property that it "composes" well when data was reused. however a notion was rather strict, as it requires stability under replacement of an arbitrary data element. a simplest algorithm was to add gaussian (or laplace) noise to distort a empirical answers. however, analysing this technique with the help of differential privacy yields suboptimal accuracy guarantees when a queries have low variance. here we propose the relaxed notion of stability that also composes adaptively. we demonstrate that the simple and natural algorithm based on adding noise scaled to a standard deviation of a query provides our notion of stability. this implies an algorithm that should answer statistical queries about a dataset with substantially improved accuracy guarantees considering low-variance queries. a only previous idea behind the method that provides such accuracy guarantees was based on the more involved differentially private median-of-means algorithm and its analysis exploits stronger "group" stability of a algorithm."
"we introduce the low dimensional function of a site frequency spectrum that was tailor-made considering distinguishing coalescent models with multiple mergers from kingman coalescent models with population growth, and use this function to construct the hypothesis test between these model classes. a null and alternative sampling distributions of a statistic are intractable, but its low dimensionality renders them amenable to monte carlo estimation. we construct kernel density estimates of a sampling distributions based on simulated data, and show that a resulting hypothesis test dramatically improves on a statistical power of the current state-of-the-art method. the key reason considering this improvement was a use of multi-locus data, inside particular averaging observed site frequency spectra across unlinked loci to reduce sampling variance. we also demonstrate a robustness of our method to nuisance and tuning parameters. finally we show that a same kernel density estimates should be used to conduct parameter estimation, and argue that our method was readily generalisable considering applications inside model selection, parameter inference and experimental design."
"effective collaboration between the robot and the person requires natural communication. when the robot travels with the human companion, a robot should be able to explain its navigation behavior inside natural language. this paper explains how the cognitively-based, autonomous robot navigation system produces informative, intuitive explanations considering its decisions. language generation here was based upon a robot's commonsense, its qualitative reasoning, and its learned spatial model. this idea behind the method produces natural explanations inside real time considering the robot as it navigates inside the large, complex indoor environment."
"automatic segmentation inside mr brain images was important considering quantitative analysis inside large-scale studies with images acquired at all ages. this paper presents the method considering a automatic segmentation of mr brain images into the number of tissue classes with the help of the convolutional neural network. to ensure that a method obtains accurate segmentation details as well as spatial consistency, a network uses multiple patch sizes and multiple convolution kernel sizes to acquire multi-scale information about each voxel. a method was not dependent on explicit features, but learns to recognise a information that was important considering a classification based on training data. a method requires the single anatomical mr image only. a segmentation method was applied to five different data sets: coronal t2-weighted images of preterm infants acquired at 30 weeks postmenstrual age (pma) and 40 weeks pma, axial t2- weighted images of preterm infants acquired at 40 weeks pma, axial t1-weighted images of ageing adults acquired at an average age of 70 years, and t1-weighted images of young adults acquired at an average age of 23 years. a method obtained a following average dice coefficients over all segmented tissue classes considering each data set, respectively: 0.87, 0.82, 0.84, 0.86 and 0.91. a results demonstrate that a method obtains accurate segmentations inside all five sets, and thus demonstrates its robustness to differences inside age and acquisition protocol."
"feature selection problems arise inside the variety of applications, such as microarray analysis, clinical prediction, text categorization, image classification and face recognition, multi-label learning, and classification of internet traffic. among a various classes of methods, forward feature selection methods based on mutual information have become very popular and are widely used inside practice. however, comparative evaluations of these methods have been limited by being based on specific datasets and classifiers. inside this paper, we develop the theoretical framework that allows evaluating a methods based on their theoretical properties. our framework was grounded on a properties of a target objective function that a methods try to approximate, and on the novel categorization of features, according to their contribution to a explanation of a class; we derive upper and lower bounds considering a target objective function and relate these bounds with a feature types. then, we characterize a types of approximations taken by a methods, and analyze how these approximations cope with a good properties of a target objective function. additionally, we develop the distributional setting designed to illustrate a various deficiencies of a methods, and provide several examples of wrong feature selections. based on our work, we identify clearly a methods that should be avoided, and a methods that currently have a best performance."
"little by little, newspapers are revealing a bright future that artificial intelligence (ai) was building. intelligent machines will aid everywhere. however, this bright future has the dark side: the dramatic job market contraction before its unpredictable transformation. hence, inside the near future, large numbers of job seekers will need financial support while catching up with these novel unpredictable jobs. this possible job market crisis has an antidote inside. inside fact, a rise of ai was sustained by a biggest knowledge theft of a recent years. learning ai machines are extracting knowledge from unaware skilled or unskilled workers by analyzing their interactions. by passionately doing their jobs, these workers are digging their own graves. inside this paper, we propose human-in-the-loop artificial intelligence (hit-ai) as the fairer paradigm considering artificial intelligence systems. hit-ai will reward aware and unaware knowledge producers with the different scheme: decisions of ai systems generating revenues will repay a legitimate owners of a knowledge used considering taking those decisions. as modern robin hoods, hit-ai researchers should fight considering the fairer artificial intelligence that gives back what it steals."
"we study a interplay between a electron-electron (e-e) and a electron-phonon (e-ph) interactions inside a two-orbital hubbard-holstein model at half filling with the help of a dynamical mean field theory. we find that a e-ph interaction, even at weak couplings, strongly modifies a phase diagram of this model and introduces an orbital-selective peierls insulating phase (ospi) that was analogous to a widely studied orbital-selective mott phase (osmp). at small e-e and e-ph coupling, we find the competition between a osmp and a ospi, while at large couplings, the competition occurs between mott and charge-density-wave (cdw) insulating phases. we further demonstrate that a hund's coupling influences a ospi transition by lowering a energy associated with a cdw. our results explicitly show that one must be cautious when neglecting a e-ph interaction inside multiorbital systems, where multiple electronic interactions create states that are readily influenced by perturbing interactions."
"our predictions, based on density-functional calculations, reveal that surface doping of zno nanowires with bi leads to the linear-in-$k$ splitting of a conduction-band states, through spin-orbit interaction, due to a lowering of a symmetry inside a presence of a dopant. this finding implies that spin polarization of a conduction electrons inside bi-doped zno nanowires could be controlled with applied electric (as opposed to magnetic) fields, making them candidate materials considering spin-orbitronic applications. our findings also show that a degree of spin splitting could be tuned by adjusting a dopant concentration. defect calculations and ab initio molecular dynamics simulations indicate that stable doping configurations exhibiting a foregoing linear-in-$k$ splitting could be realized under reasonable thermodynamic conditions."
"a growing complexity of heterogeneous cellular networks (hetnets) has necessitated a need to consider variety of user and base station (bs) configurations considering realistic performance evaluation and system design. this was directly reflected inside a hetnet simulation models considered by standardization bodies, such as a third generation partnership project (3gpp). complementary to these simulation models, stochastic geometry based idea behind the method modeling a user and bs locations as independent and homogeneous poisson point processes (ppps) has gained prominence inside a past few years. despite its success inside revealing useful insights, this ppp-based model was not rich enough to capture all a spatial configurations that appear inside real world hetnet deployments (on which 3gpp simulation models are based). inside this paper, we bridge a gap between a 3gpp simulation models and a popular ppp-based analytical model by developing the new unified hetnet model inside which the fraction of users and some bs tiers are modeled as poisson cluster processes (pcps). this model captures both non-uniformity and coupling inside a bs and user locations. considering this setup, we derive exact expression considering downlink coverage probability under maximum signal-to-interference ratio (sir) cell association model. as intermediate results, we define and evaluate sum-product functionals considering ppp and pcp. special instances of a proposed model are shown to closely resemble different configurations considered inside 3gpp hetnet models. our results concretely demonstrate that a performance trends are highly sensitive to a assumptions made on a user and sbs configurations."
